# EXTRACTED TEXT FROM: 00_Lone Pine Writings.pdf
# Extraction Date: 2025-06-02 13:40:36
# Total Pages: 96
# Total Characters: 133,546

================================================================================



--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  2  
 
The Lone Pine Writings  
 
 
A Common Language for  
Electrical  Engineering 
 
 
 
 
by 
 
Eric P . Dollard  
   
 
 
 
 
Published by  
A&P Electronic Media  
Liberty Lake, Washington  
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  3  
  Cover Layout:    Aaron Murakami  
Book Layout    Peter Lindemann  
      A&P Electronic Med ia 
      Liberty Lake, Washington 
  Front Cover Image:  Jeffrey Pang  
      Creative Commons Image  
      http://commons.wikimedia.org 
   
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2011  Eric P. Dollard  (Author, copyright for content)  
Copyright © 2013  A&P Electronic Media  (Publisher , copyright for layout)  
 
All Rights Reserved, Worldwide.  No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in an electronic retrieval system, or transmitted in any form, or by any means, without the prior, written permission of the copyright holders or the publisher.  Unauthorized copying of this digital file is a criminal offense and prohibited by International Law.  
    Digital Edition Published by:   A&P Electronic Media  
         PO Box 713 
         Liberty Lake, WA 99019  
         
http://emediapress.com/  
   Book Version 1.00  -   Release Date: October, 2013  
  
First Edition:  
First Printing: October, 2013 
Digital Format: PDF File  
50,000 Authorized Downloads  
    

--- PAGE 4 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  4  
Foreword : 
 
This book, and its content, developed out of the general frustration of the 
author when trying to teach others about his work in electrical engineering.  
 This collection of essays started appearing in  discussion threads on the 
Energetic Forum around 2011. At the time, the author, Eric Dollard was  
living in his car near Lone Pine, California. Originally, Eric wrote the 
material out on paper and sent i t to a colleague who transcribed the 
material and posted it in the forums under the pseudonym "T-REX". As of 
the time of this publication, all of thes e posts are still available on the 
internet.  
 
Each letter was called a "transmission" and contained information on 
specific electrical engineering terms and how they are to be used. The 
original format of the material is retained in this edition of the boo k. 
 
The phenomena we call "electricity" is a dynamic, but artificial presentation 
of the Natural World, and because of this, its behavior follows specific rules. Understanding these specific behaviors is the key to engineering this phenomena, but developin g a common language with which to describe 
these behaviors is the key to teaching others these engineering skills.  
 
The purpose of this book is to provide clarity for the electrical engineering 
community regarding the use of common terms for electrical units. The last attempt to standardize this language was made by Oliver Heaviside over 
100 years ago , and his effort was met by censure from the Royal Society of 
London. It is hoped that the release of this book will be met with a more 
enlightened response.  
 
Peter Lindemann  
Editor  
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  5  
Recommended Reading : 
 
During the course of reading this book, you will find the author making 
various recommendations for further study.  These include, but are not 
limited to:  
 
Previous works by the author, Eric P . Dollard  
 as we ll as works by:  
 
Charles P . Steinmetz  
Oliver Heaviside  
Nikola Tesla  
 and mathematicians Grassman, Hamilton, Tait, and MacFarlane.  
 
 
As you read, make note of these recommendations and follow -up on them 
with later study.  
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  6 Table  of Contents  
 
Foreword  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4 
Recommended Reading  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5 
 
Transmissio n 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8 
Energy Defined in Terms of Electrical Engineering . . . . . . .  8 
 
Transmission 2  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 
Rates of Change  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 
Continuing with Variation of a Dimension with Respect to Time   . . 12 
Time Variance and Its Products  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 
 
Transmission 3  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 
The Planck Revisited  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 
 
Transmission 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 
The Time Tunnel  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 
Ratios and Products Continued  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 
 
Transmission 5  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 
Space the Final Frontier  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 
 
Transmission 6  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 
Dimensional Meanings   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 
Dimensional Relations of Volts and Amperes in Time and Space . . . 29 
Impedance and Admittance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 
The End of Time  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 
Summary Statements and M athematical Expressions  . . . . . . 39 
Space  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 
 
Transmission 7  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 
In Space, Heaviside  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 
Application of Space to th e Electric Dimensional Relations  . . . . 49 
Basic Electrical Relations in Space  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  7  
Transmission 8  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 
Experimental Cubic Volumes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 
 
Transmission 9  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 
Inductance and Capacitance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 
Reduction to Primary Dimensions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 
The Variation of Inductance and Capacitance With Respect to Time  . 69 
Parameter Variat ion Continued  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 
 
Transmission 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 
The " Telegraph Equation, " Part One  . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 
The " Telegraph Equation ," Finale  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 
Conclusion   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89 
List of Symbols  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90 
 
Glossary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  8 Transmission 1  
 
Energy Defined in Terms of Electrical Engineering  
 
Now, why are we all gathere d here? The focus is on "Energy" , but what is 
energy, and why is it so important to everyone anyway? It seems somewhat 
obsessive. The definition of it is the ability to do work, but vernacular has 
broadened this , so now energy can mean almost anything. This must stop.  
 Energy , in its most arch-typical form , is embodied in the phenomenon of 
Electricity, but what is Electricity? Now our wheels even more stuck in the 
mud! But we have important clues, namely that of polarity, not plus or 
minus so much but more like male or female. This thought follows from 
Goethe to Tesla and Steinmetz. Thus Electricity, in order to manifest, a 
UNION must dev elop. This is the union of the "male", or projective, and 
"multiplied by" the "female" , or receptive. Hereby, the male is the dielectric 
field in counterspace (of per centimeters), and the magnetic field or female 
in space (of centimeters squared). Space in cm  squared is what you pay for 
in "real estate" , counterspace in per cm  is the space between the lines on a 
ruler, or between molecules in a crystal.  
 
For the Electricity extant between a pair of wires in your lamp cord, the 
closer the wires, the more capacita nce, and thus the more Dielectricity. 
Conversely, for the same cord, the farther apart the wires, the more 
inductance and thus the more Magnetism. Therefore it is seen that the 
smaller the space (the more counterspace) the more Dielectricity that can be 
stored, and conversely the larger the space between the wires (the more 
real estate) the more Magnetism that can be stored. Very simple, do not let your mind make it any more complicated than that!  
 
Now let us reach out for a few quantitative  relations: The product (line, 
cross, or dot –  unrestricted) of the total amount of Dielectricity multiplied 
by the total amount of Magnetism (when both are in union) gives the total 
quantity of Electricity. We will call this quantity of Electrici ty the letter "Q"  
and nam e this "The Planck"  after Max Planck. For the Einstein dimensions 

--- PAGE 9 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  9 of the Planck are Energy –  Time,  but let us not think backwards –  ass. 
Saying this in engineer 's lingo, the quantity of Electricity, Q,  is given as 
Watt – Seconds – Seconds, or Watt Seconds  squared.  
 
Now, in one foot of lamp cord, bounded between the wires, I have,  say, one 
million Plancks of electric induction. The frequency is 60 cycles (377 
radians) per second. Thusly the quantity of Plancks, Q,  is being produced 
or consumed at a time rat e of 377 radians per second, or in other words, 
Plancks per second. Hence the time rate of variation of the quantity of 
electric induction hereby gives; Watt seconds squared per second , or 
dividing out, gives Watt seconds .  But Watt seconds is the dimensio ns of 
energy. Well golly- gee Mr. Wizard, we have defined energy! And hereby 
power  is defined as the time rate of the production or consumption of the 
electric induction,  Q, divided by t ime, which  gives W atts. 
 
It is that simple . So push the " Erase Button " on your head for two notions: 
Energy is the product of mass times the velocity of light squared , erased? 
Next, Electricity is the flow of electrons in the wire, erased? Good!  
 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  10 Transmission 2  
 
In the previous transmission it was shown that the electric induction, 
bound between the wires of a lamp cord, was the union of two distinct fields of induction, the dielectric in counterspace, and the magnetic in space. These fields consist of discrete lines of force. Thus these lines exist as 
individual units or qu anta of inductive force. Both fields exert mechanical 
force upon th e bounding system of so -called " conductors. " These 
mechanical forces, those of the dielectric, and those of the magnetic, exert 
actions so as to increase their coefficients of ind uction, that is the dielectric 
"capacitance", and the magnetic "inductance"  are increased. Hereby, the 
dielectric field draws the conductors nearer to each other, increasing the counterspace. Conversely the magnetic field pushes the conductors away 
from each other, increasing the space. Hereby we may say that the 
dielectric field is contractive, and the magnetic field is expansive. Hence the 
resulting electric field of the union produces a resultant force upon the 
bounding conductors. This resultant force thus may be  expansive, null, or 
contractive, depending upon the relative densities of the dielectric and the 
magnetic force fields respectively.  
 
So now our previous discourse upon these matters brings important 
questions to mind that heretofore remained unanswered: First, how big is a 
Planck? In other words, how many Plancks per one second (unit time) 
equal one Watt-second (unit energy)?  
 
Second, what ratio of dielectric field density to magnetic field density 
results in the contractive force just balanced against the expansive force, 
thereby canceling any mechanical forces upon the bounding conductors? 
Who can solve these important questions?  
 
The following r eferences  may help answer these questions.  
1. Electro -magnetic Theory Vol. 1  by Oliver Heaviside.  
2. Impuls es, Waves and Discharges  by Charles P.  Steinmetz.  
3. Electricity and Matter  by J.J. Thomson.  
4. Recent Researches Into Electricity  by J.J. Thomson  

--- PAGE 11 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  11 5. Discharges In Windings  by E.P. Dollard  
6. Occult Ether Physics  by William Lyne  
 
Rates of Change:  
 
So fa r I think the concept of space and counterspace in its basic form is 
established. Counterspace, as that space between the lines on a ruler is an 
apt descriptive analog. A ruler divided in millimeters has less counterspace 
than a ruler divided in nanometers . This is obvious. (think in terms of 
capillary action) Also, the Planck is our undivided fundamental quantity of electricity and all else will be a development of the Planck.  
 
What needs to be focused upon at this point in writing is the concept of 
VARIAT ION WITH RESPECT TO TIME, that is the dimension of per 
second. This also is known as the "Time Derivative" , delta X  over delta T , in 
the Newton – Leibniz  infinitesimal calculus. Let us say the rate of change 
with respect to time.  
 Everyone' s intimate mecha nical relationship with their automotive 
apparatus render it useful tool for analogy. Various phenomenon make their appearance, somewhat ghostlike, during the process of variation with 
respect to time. Let us take the dimensional relation of velocity, that  is, the 
ratio of the dimension of length (space) to the dimension of time. This is the 
velocity V, let us say specifically miles per hour. Now we know that if the 
dimension of mass, m, is moving at a given velocity, V, that is , the "weight"  
of your body i n the auto, in CONSTANT motion at the speed limit let’s say, 
no forces or perceptible sensation is imparted to your body. In other words 
you feel sitting in the car seat the same as you feel in the seat in front of the 
television set (so the auto is like a  rolling TV) . So long as the velocity 
remains unchanged nothing is experienced or felt. Now a deer jumps in 
front of your auto, you slam on the brakes and miss it, now you are moving at 1/10th of the speed limit. During the interval in time in which the 
velocity varied with respect to time, that is miles per hour per second, or 
the ratio of the velocity V to the time interval t, your physical body 
experienced a powerful force pushing you forward. The more quickly the 

--- PAGE 12 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  12 auto changed speed the more this force impacted your body. So we can say 
that this force F is given as the ratio of velocity to time, for any unit mass of 
your body. That is, the force F equals your body’s mass times the ratio of 
the velocity to the time interval of the velocity’s variation with respect to 
time.  
 So back to the Planck, that quantity of electrical induction, Q. So long as 
there is no variation of the electrification, that is so long as it is static, no 
other phenomenon manifests. Just as with the mass of your body and the 
velocity  of its motion in space, so long as there’s no variation no sensation 
of force is experienced by your body. Completing the analogy the concept 
of energy is then entirely analogous to that force you felt when you hit the 
brakes. Hence they are both phantom like derivatives of things that you 
otherwise can perceive as real.  
 
So now we are getting a further "feel"  that what we call energy is not really 
that primary phenomenon that the Einstein would like us to believe, but in 
reality is only a secondary deriva tive of some more concrete phenomenon, 
or ghost associated with something physically tangible or real. N ow the 
idea that energy can be "created"  or made to go away can now be brought 
to mind.  
 
Continuing with Variation of a  Dimension with Respect to Time 
 
Continuing with the concept of the variation of a quantity (or dimension) 
with respect to time (another dimension). We may say then we are talking 
about a RATIO of a physical dimension to a metrical dimension. Previously 
given, the ratio of a physical dimension, the Planck Q to a metrical 
dimension the time t gives then the dimensional relation of energy W . Then 
from the Newton -Leibniz  concept we say delta Q over delta t equals W, 
that is, the first order time derivative of electrification Q equals the ener gy 
W. Now Einstein  says the inverse, and that is, the time integral of W , the 
energy, over time interval t' to t" is the electrification Q. This is to say Q is 
the PRODUCT of the energy W  and the time interval T . W times T equals 
Q.  This is backward -ass, thereby occluding the interrelationships of these 

--- PAGE 13 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  13 three distinct relationships.  
 
Further, hit your erase button on the gibberish of 1, 2, or 3 dimensional 
space, there is only ONE DIMENSION OF SPACE –  SPACE! Coordinates 
are NOT dimensions. Example, the volume of a cylinder can be expressed in TWO terms, height and circumference. So where is the third "dimension ", erased?  
 Continuing then it has been given that the total electrification Q is the 
union, or product, of the total dielectric induction Psi, and the total magnetic induction Phi. In other words, the dimensional relationship Q, the total electrification, is the product of the dimension of total dielectric 
induction Psi, and the dimension of total magnetic induction Phi. Hence we 
have FOUR primary dim ensions in electrical engineering. These are:  
 
1) Time  
2) Space  
3) Dielectricity  
4) Magnetism  
 Every other relation, quantity, or expression, Volt, Amp, Ohm, etc. is 
derived from these FOUR dimensions. Time and Space are the metrical 
dimensions; Dielectr icity and Magnetism are the physical dimensions. It is 
that basic!  
 
Time  Variance and Its Products  
 
Continuing  on the concept change with respect to time, the total 
electrification Q in Plancks is a resultant of the union, of PRODUCT, of a 
pair of inducti ons, the total dielectric induction, Psi and the total magnetic 
induction, Phi.  
 
Now let us deal with these two inductions individually. Variation of the 
total dielectric induction Psi with respect to time t, that is, the RATIO of the 
dimension of dielectr ic induction to the dimension of time, dielectric 

--- PAGE 14 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  14 induction over time, or the time rate with which the dielectric induction is 
produced or consumed, the DISPLACEMENT CURRENT in amperes I. Let 
us call this Maxwell's Law.  PSI over t equals current I.  This makes sense 
since the charge in a battery is given as Ampere– Hours, that is I times t 
equals Psi.  
 
Hence we have arrived at a new dimensional relationship, the “current” in 
Amperes.  
 Analogously, we have the variation of the total magnetic induction Phi with 
respect to time t, that is, the RATIO of the dimension of magnetic induction to the dimension of time, magnetic induction over time, or the time rate 
with which the magnetism is produced or consumed, is the electro -motive 
force in Volts. Phi over t equa ls the voltage E . We know this as the "Faraday 
law" . Hence we have arrived at a new complimentary dimensional 
relationship, the E.M.F. in Volts.  
 
Taking this  one step further, consider the ratio of the variation of the 
magnetic induction P hi with respect to time t, E, to the variation of the 
dielectric induction Psi with respect to time t, I. Since the dimension of time 
appears on both top & bottom of the ratio this dimension cancels leaving 
simply the ratio of Phi to Psi. Hereby the RATIO of the total magn etic 
induction Phi to the total dielectric induction Psi gives the dimensional 
relation of impedance, Z, in Ohms.  This can be arrived at somewhat 
differently. Since the variation of magnetism with respect to time is the 
electro -motive force, E, and since the variation of dielectricity with respect 
to time is the displacement current, I, then the RATIO of the electro -motive 
force, E, to the displacement current, I, give the impedance, Z, in Ohms. 
That is, the ratio of E to I is Z in Ohms . 
 Inversely, from t he standpoint of dielectricity rather than magnetism the 
RATIO of the total dielectric induction, Psi, to the total magnetic induction, 
Phi, that is the ratio of die lectricity to magnetism is the "Admittance" , Y, in 
Siemens. Hence the ratio of the displacement current I to the electro -motive 
force E gives the Admittance , Y, in Siemens.  

--- PAGE 15 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  15  
 
Here by we have arrived at four new distinctive dimensional relationships;  
 
1. Displacement current in amperes, I  
2. Electro -motive force in volts, E  
3. The impedance in ohm s, Z 
4. The admittance in Siemens, Y  
  
 

--- PAGE 16 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  16 Transmission 3  
 
The Planck Revisited  
 
Continuing with the conceptualization of RATES OF CHANGE with 
respect to time and the interactions that arise.  
 In summary it has been given that variation of a quantity of diel ectric 
induction, Psi, with respect to time is the DISPLACEMENT CURRENT, in 
amperes, I. We will call this Maxwell’s Law of Dielectric Induction after its 
discoverer James Maxwell.  
 Also given is that the variation of a quantity of magnetic induction, P hi, 
with respect to time is the ELECTRO -MOTIVE FORCE in volts, E . We will 
call this Faraday’s Law of Electro -Magnetic Induction, after its discoverer 
Michael Faraday.  
 It should be noted that displacement currents flow thru the insulation 
(dielectric). It is N OT the familiar conduction current of the electronic 
ideologies.  
 Likewise the electro -motive force is a result of the conductor (metallic). It is 
NOT the electro -static potential of the dielectric field. A conjugate relation 
exists here, the " insulator " and the " conductor. " So now we have TWO 
distinct "volts " and TWO distinct "amps ", hence E  and I are seen to have 
dual definitions. The ampere, I,  may be a displacement current, or may be a 
conduction current. Likewise the volts, E, may be an electro -motive force, 
or it may be an electro -static potential. These distinctions are important and 
misunderstanding rests here.  
 
The Maxwell-Thomson concept of electric induction, and the aether which 
engenders this induction, considers the dielectric lines of force, a nd the 
magnetic lines of force, as CONCRETE  PHYSICAL REALITIES. (Read 
Electricity and M atter by J.J. Thomson, and also read Theory of Light and 
Color by Babbitt, the Un-sterilized version).  

--- PAGE 17 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  17  
These lines can be considered " tubes of force " a hydro -dynamical vortex 
tube of sorts. Here we find the " hydro -dynamical model of the aether " as 
given by James Clerk Maxwell. Understanding of this sort has been buried 
by the relativists and quantum car mechanics. From the initial concept of 
Faraday, thru the theoretical  reasoning of Maxwell, into the experimentalist 
like Crookes and J.J. Thomson, it gave an ENGINEERABLE CONCEPT of 
the primordial aether. Finally Nikola Tesla, Oliver Heaviside, and Charles  
Steinmetz turned this into today’s electrical technology. The roots  of Edison 
sprang to life.  
 
So what may aether be? Consider what are called the " states of matter. " 
 
1. SOLID  
2. LIQUID  
3. GAS  
4. PLASMA  
5. AETHER  
 
Hence, the five distinct states of matter.  
 
Electricity is embodied in the aetheric state of matter, or " proto-matter. " 
Electricity is aether in a state of dynamic polarization; magnetism is aether 
in motion, dielectricity is aether under stress or strain. The motions and 
strains of the aether give rise to electrification. Phi times Psi gives Q.  
 
In defining the  hydro -dynamical tubes of force as concrete realities, a 
distinct phenomenon taking place with the aether, the constitution of the 
Planck sticks its snout out of the sand. The tubes of force are discrete, fiber -
like, quanta as some would say. Experiments b y J.J. Thomson indicate this. 
Lines of force are a quantum phenomenon, distinct concrete entities.  
 
Further, we have the idea of "Planck’s Constant" , any variation in the total 
density of electric induction Q, in Planck’s, cannot vary continuously but must  exhibit its variation in discontinuous, or discrete steps. Hence a  

--- PAGE 18 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  18  
distinct quanta Q. We may infer that the union, or CROSS PRODUCT, of a 
single tube of DIELECTRIC induction, with a single tube of MAGNETIC induction, gives birth to a single unit of ELEC TRIFICATION, Q. This idea 
embodies the concept of the photon, a QUANTUM UNIT of electromagnetic induction. Also consider t he J.J. Thomson concept of the 
"electron"  (his own discovery). Thomson considered the electron the 
terminal end of one unit line of dielectric induction. One tube, one electron. So then, how big is a unit Planck, the quantum unit of electric induction, Q?  
 Let us summarize the knowledge we have gained from what has been given to this point. The basic engineering dimensional relationships  are 
hereby:  
 
 
The undivided quantity of the total ele ctrification, " Planck"  
 
 
The time rate of the production or consumption  
of this electrification,  "Joule " (energy) . 
 
PSI, 
  
The total dielectric induction, or the ratio of the total electric induction Q,  
to the total magnetic induction which is embodied in this electric induction.  
This is the " Coulomb"  (charge) . 
 
PHI, 
  
The total magnetic induction, or the ratio of the total electric induction, Q, 
to the total dielectric induction, Psi,  which is embodied within this electric 
induction. This is the " Weber"  (induction) . 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  19  
 
The electromotive force which results from the production or consumption  
of the total magnetic induction Phi. The unit is the " Volt ". 
 
 
The displacement current which results from the production or  
consumption of total dielectric induction Psi. The unit is the " Ampere ". 
 
 
Group One consists of:  Q, Planck s, Psi, 
 , Coulombs,  and Phi, 
 , Webers  
Group Two consists of:  W, Joules,  E, Volts , and I, Amperes. 
 Group one represent  PRIMARY quant ities, whereas group two represent  
REACTIONS by the primary quantities to their variation in quantity with respect to Time.  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  20  
Transmission  4 
 
The Time Tunnel  
 
Oliver Heaviside once stated that " The law of continuity of energy"  is 
maintained when the energy existent  at one time disappears but reappears 
at another time. In H.G. Wells' the  "Time Machine" t he professor argues 
with the doctor saying that his time device (which just vanished) is still at the same spot in the room, but the doctor can’t see it because it is there, yes, but in another time. It moved through the dimension of time.  
 The motion of electricity in time has been the primary topic so far. Given 
are the three basic relations;  
 
Plancks per second gives Joules  
 
 
 
Coulombs per second gives  Amperes  
 
 
 
Webers per second gives Volts  
 
 
 Joules, Amperes or Volts, are SECONDARY reactions in response to 
variation of our known PRIMARY dimensions, the total electrification in Plancks, the total dielectrification in Coulombs, the total magnetizatio n in 
Webers.  

--- PAGE 21 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  21  
In terms established by Oliver Heaviside, the Volts of E.M.F. are a 
MAGNETIC REACTANCE, and the Amperes of displacement are a 
DIELECTRIC SUSCEPTANCE. The degree to which the reactance and the 
susceptance manifest is proportional to the time r ate of variation, that is, 
per second.  
 Here the dimension of time is not seconds, it is PER SECONDS. Somewhat 
like counterspace, but this is NOT COUNTER TIME. One instance of a per 
time arrangement is cycles per second. This is known as the FREQUENCY, 
F, in cycles per second. Here is a dimensional relation of per second, 
frequency, F. This frequency F represents only a rotational (alternating) 
cycle, and thereby is only a partial frequency. Also existent is a cycle of geometric p rogression or regression. T his "frequency"  is given in decibels 
per second. Hence our general frequency is given as decibel-cycle per 
second, or for Newton -Leibniz methodology, it is neper -radian per second, 
v.  
 
Hereby:  
 
1. v Q equals W, Joule or Planck per second.  
2. v PSI equals I, Amp ere, or Coulomb per second.  
3. v PHI equals E , Volt, or Weber per second. 
 The dimensional factor, v , in per second we will ca ll the Heaviside "Time 
Operator"  This time operator describes the variation with respect to time as 
a "versor operator" . 
 
E and I are NOT necessarily time coincident, but one may lag or lea d the 
other. Cause and effect become separated by what is known as 
HYSTERESIS. It can be said that E  and I exist in different “time frames.” 
This subject rapidly accelerates into a Bach type reality a nd is much too 
complex for now.  

--- PAGE 22 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  22  
 Ratios and Products Continued:  
 
Up to here has been covered the concepts of dimensional relationsh ips 
known as ratios, dimension "one" per dimension "two."  If dimension two is 
that of time, the ratio becomes a time rate o r time derivative, from the 
Newton – Leibniz concept. This ratio is known as a first order time 
derivative, or differential equation. The dimension of time is in PER SECOND and this may be called a FREQUENCY, v , in NEPER –  RADIANS 
per SECOND. But let us no t plunge these depths quite yet.  
 So what about products, the union of dimensional relation " one" by the 
dimensional relation " two", the product of one and two? Given thus far is 
the product of the magnetic induction, Phi, and of the dielectric induction, 
Psi, giving forth the total electric induction, Q. The product of magnetism 
united with dielectricity gives rise to the total electrification of the aether. 
Psi times Phi.  
 
But consider the union of the law of magnetic and dielectric induction. 
Faradays’ t imes Maxwell’s. Thus the union, or product, of the electro -
motive force, E , in volts with the displacement current, I, in amperes. E  
times I. Here , specifically , is the product of the dimensional relation 
WEBERS per SECOND, and the dimensional relation COULOMBS per 
SECOND.  
 
The resultant relationship is hereby : 
 
WEBER – COULOMB  per SECOND SQUARED  
 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  23  
But it has been given that:  
 
WEBER – COULOMB equals PLANCK  
 
 
 
Thus the dimensional resultant of the union of the pair of dimensional laws 
is PLANCKS per SECOND SQUARED. We will call this the electrical 
ACTIVITY, also known as the electrical power, P . 
 
Hence the dimensional relation : 
 
PLANCKS PER SECOND SQUARED  equals WATTS  
 
 
 E times I equals P, Volts times amperes equals watts. However it has been 
given that the energy, W , in Joules is dimensionally the time rate of the total 
electric induction, Q in Plancks, that is:  
 
JOULES PER SECOND  equal s WATTS  
 
 
 
That is, the electrical activity in Watts represents the variation of the total 
energy of the electric field, this energy itself resulting from the variation of the total electric field of induction.  
 This is not unlike the situation in the automobile. No forces appear with 
the first order time derivative of miles per hour, but manifest in direct 
proportion to the second order time derivative of: 

--- PAGE 24 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  24  
 
MILES per HOUR  per SECOND  
or 
MILES per HOUR – SECOND  
 
 
 
 
Hence, there is a distinct similarity between the dimensional relation for 
mechanical reactive force and the dimensional relation for electric activity : 
 
PLANCK per SECOND –  SECOND  
 
 
 The Watt of electrical power, P . 
 
 

--- PAGE 25 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  25  
Transmission  5 
 
Space , the Final Frontier  
 
As a dimension , space is distinct from the dimension of time, and is devoid 
of any physical dimension. It is hereby eternal, and empty. Like time, spa ce 
is a metrical dimension, it exists to quantify. Bounded space can define a volume, area, distance, span, or density. 
 It is customary to consider space boundaries as a CUBIC, or third degree 
set of coordinates . The three coordinates  are length, width, a nd height, 
taken from a corner of the cube. Think of a sugar cube, the sugar is the space and the corners define the boundaries. These three coordinates , 
length, width, and height are WRONGLY known as the three dimensions 
of space. This is a major mind vir us and is hard to erase.  
 There is only one dimension of space, SPACE, a metrical dimension. Any 
number of coordinates  in any number of geometries can serve to define the 
boundaries of said space. The use of the cubic three is habitual.  
 The dimension of s pace is considered to exist in degrees, or powers of a 
unit space dimension, here centimeters, l  (lowercase L). So we can say cubic 
centimeters, or square centimeters, etc. hereby, on a cm basis;  
 
    
    
  
 
and 
 
   
    
  
 cm to a positive degree is call ed conventional – spatial relations, or simply 
space relations, whereas cm to a negative degree is called counter – spatial, 
or simply counterspace relations.  
 

--- PAGE 26 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  26 All the above constitute a single dimension, space. T his space is bounded 
by a coordinate  constr uct upon a given degree.  
 
Hence cm to the Nth degree serves as our " space operator ", operating upon 
a physical dimensional relation. For example, Q times cubic cm, the volume 
of electricity, P si per square cm, the metrical dimension of space is applied 
to a physical dimension of substanc e. Even aether is a substance.  
 Mathematically:  
 
  gives Planck – cm cubed 
 
  gives Coulomb per cm squared  
 
In situations involving the dimension of time, the system of algebra serves 
well in expressing dimensional relatio ns. It may even be said that algebra is 
the mathematics of time. (see Alexander McFarlane, American Association 
for the Advancement of Science). For situations involving the dimension of space , no suitable algebra has yet been developed.  
 All efforts by th e great mathematicians during the 19th century were 
fruitless, except Oliver Heaviside' s. Heaviside gave a system of vector 
expressions, divergence, curl, and potential, which today are WRONGLY 
called "Maxwell' s Equations. " They are not, they are Heaviside 's equations, 
and they are NOT algebraic. But these equations have become the " Tablets 
of Moses ", bringing from the skies the laws of electromagnetism . 
 
But no mention is ever found on the laws of M agneto -Dielectricity, a 
serious drawback. (see space verso r part in " Theory of Wireless Power ", by 
E. P . Dollard). Therefore at present there is no true understanding of the spatial relationships of electricity. It is this algebraic absence that, in 
general, renders occult the real workings of electric induction,  and 
specifically renders occult the work of Nikola Tesla. Space is then , the final 
frontier.  
 

--- PAGE 27 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  27  
There is only ONE DIMENSION of Space  
 
• Space raised to the positive exponent  is simply called space (acre).  
• Space raised to the negative exponent is called coun ter-space (per sq. 
centimeter).  
 
There is only ONE DIMENSION of Time  
 
• Time multiplied by positive one,  is called forward time.  
• Time multiplied by neg ative one is called reverse time.  
 
Space is multiplicative (exponential) and time is additive (linear). One 
dimension of time(second), one dimension of space (centimeter). System of 
base one numbers converts the dimension into forward, backward, counter, 
etc. 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 28 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  28  
Transmission  6 
 
Dimensional Meanings  
 So far we have strongly emphasized  dimensions and dimension al relations. 
Dimensional representation is the most direct method of analysis and synthesis with regard to the electric phenomena.  
 
Electrical E ngineering has four primary dimensions.  
 
Metrical  
 1)  time,  t, second  
 2)  space,  l, centimeter  
Substantial  
 3)  magnetism,  
, Weber  
 4)  dielectricity, 
 , Coulomb  
 
There are no other electrical dimensions, that is it!  
 
The electric-dimensional RELATIONS are derived from these primary dimensions, but the relations are not new dimensions
. There are no others 
than "the four."  
 
Consider a certain hypothetical transmission system, the Integratron 
system  of George Van Tassel. (not the Goddess temple " Integratron"  of 
today) The Integratron a ffects transmission around space. Let us say one  is 
on earth and another is on M ars. If you enter the " in door " on the earth 
unit, you exit the " out door " on the mars unit.  
 
In performing this operation you did NOT travel from E arth to M ars thru 
any intervening dimensional relation of space. No velocity or space per 
time, was effected.  However time has not been altered so it may be said 
that the dimension of space has been cancelled out. Space was the transmission obstacle and the electro -geometrical structure of the 

--- PAGE 29 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  29 Integratron neutralized the dimension of space.  
 
This is called a SPAC E SCALAR, no variation in space.  
 
Another example, long distance D.C. power transmission. Long distance 
power transmission utilizing alternating current suffers from the effects of electro -motive force, E , and the displacement current,  I, both time 
derivat ives. The compounding of E & I over long distances results in 
serious transmission impairments. The dimension of time is eliminated. 
Thus the dimensional relations involving time such as E and I disappear, 
but not into " another dimension ", there is none.  
 
D.C. has zero frequency , hence it has no relation to time. It is eternal, 
invariable, consta nt. 
 
Direct C urrent is a TIME SCALAR, no variation in time.  
 
 
 
Dimensional Relations of Volts and Amperes in Time and Space 
 
We have heretofore firmly established a  concept of the two fundamental 
laws of induction, Faraday’s law of electro -magnetic induction and 
Maxwell’s law of magneto -dielectric induction. Electro -motive force E  is a 
magnetic reactance to a change in the net quantity of magnetic induction, 
displacement current I is a dielectric susceptance to a change in the net 
quantity of dielectric induction. E  in Volts and I in Amperes are the result 
of inductive variation with respect to TIME.  
 
However, also in the same units of volts and amperes exist the electrostatic 
potential, e in Volts, and the magneto -motive  force (M.M.F.), i  in Amperes. 
This situation does not recommend itself.  
 

--- PAGE 30 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  30  
The E.M.F., E,  and the M.M.F., i,  have a conjugate relation thru the metallic 
structure of the electric system. The displacement I and the electro -static 
potential e have a conjugate relation within the dielectric structure of the 
electric system. E  and i in the metal, e and I in the insulator. This suggests 
the electric activity E times i and another activity e  times I, both i n Watts. 
Conversely, electrical activities of E  times I, as well as e times i suggest 
themselves. Hence we have arrived at a four polar form of electrical activity. Four distinct wattages. These represent the four terms of the 
"Telegraph Equation"  of Oliver Heaviside in their primordial form.  
 
The reactance E.M.F., E , via the dimension of time, T ', gives rise to an 
electro -static potential, e , across the dimension of space, l . In conjugate 
form the susceptance  displacement, I, via the dimension of time, T ", gives 
rise to a M.M.F ., i, across the dimension of space, l . It may be said that E  & I 
are the cause, where e  & i are the effect, chicken or egg.  
 
The metallic-dielectric geometric structure bounding the electric field of 
induction engenders the mechanic al forces developed by this bounded 
field. Where E  and I are strictly electric forces, e  and i give rise to 
mechanical forces upon physical matter thru the dimension of SPACE. i  
and e are the seat of magnetic forces pushing the metallic and of dielectric 
force pulling the metallic. i  is a pushing force, e  is a pulling force.  
 
How does the dimension of space enter into e  and i, both spawned of the 
dimension of time? From time to space, but Volts and Amperes in both. 
This is a problem yet to be solved, a dimensional complication. e  and i are 
not complete but are misrepresentations. They are figments of time. Forces 
due to e  and i are more properly expressed as the dielectric gradient, Volts 
per centimeter and the magnetic gradient, Amperes per centimeter. e  over l 
gives d the dielectric, and i  over l gives m, the magnetic. d  is the dielectric 
force, m is the magnetic force, of the dielectric field Psi in Coulombs and 
the magnetic field of Phi in Webers respectively.  

--- PAGE 31 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  31  
Hence we have arrived at a pair of new dimensional relations:  
 
Dielectric force , d, equals Volts, e, per cm , l 
Or Weber per centimeter – second  
 
 
 
 
Magnetic force , m, equals Amperes, i, per cm , l. 
Or Coulombs per centimeter –  second  
 
 
 
 
 
The dimension of time and its relation to space is evidence d by these 
dimensional expressions. Here a condition exists where dielectric force is 
derived magnetically, and magnetic induction is derived dielectrically, both 
thru the dimension of time. However, we are not interested in time here, 
we are only interest ed in  space. It seems like we are stuck in a loop.  
 The way out is to utilize the new pair of dimensional relations, that is  d the 
dielectric gradient  and m the magnetic gradient, as primary dimensional 
relationships.  Effort will be made along the way to express these relations 
in an alternate expression, thru the concept of inductance and capacitance.  
 If this pair, d  and m, (both with no one’s name  associated with them or with 
any real definition ) are taken as primary dimensional relations , then the 
elect ro-static potential e  is derived as a secondary relation to d . Likewise the 
M.M. F. i is derived as a secondary relation to m.  

--- PAGE 32 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  32  
It is then as follows:  
 
e equals the product of d  and c m 
 
. 
 as well as:  
 
e equals Volt – centimeter per centimeter,  
 
. 
 
And : 
 
i equals the product of m  and cm  
 
. 
 as well as:  
 
i equals Ampe re – centimeter per centimeter  
 
 
 These dimensional relations give rise to centimeter per centimeter. What 
can we make of this, a space scalar. This dimensional condition rep resents a 
SPACE INTEGRAL.  

--- PAGE 33 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  33  
Integration, as it is known, is derived from the Newton – Leibniz concepts 
and represents the inverse of differentiation. This application to c m per cm 
is called the line integral of d or m. Integration is best avoided . 
 
What we are doing is this; the electric forces dimensionally are in PER 
CENTIMETERS, that is, in a counter -spatial form. In the integration, the 
product of the counterspace span in per cm  is multiplied by spatial 
distance of the span. Per cm  times cm, the product of counterspace  and 
space, results in a dimensional cancellation, or numeric. This is called a 
SPACE SCALAR condition. It is dimensionless , but possesses  an "angle. " 
 
In conclusion, the force exists in a counter -spatial gradient, whereas the 
potential, or M.M. F., exist s in a spatial distance. The potential, e,  is the 
integral of the force d , and the M.M. F., i, is the integral of the force m.  
 
To understand this more thoroughly, r ead the introductory chapters of 
Heaviside’s "E.M. Theory, volume one."  
 Impedance and Admitta nce 
 At this point the next level of dimensional relations can be derived from the 
primary dimensional relations given thus far;  
 
(I) The law of electro -magnetic induction , Faraday 's law, that is the 
electro -motive force E , in volts, is given by the propor tionality (ratio) of the 
total quantity of magnetic induction Phi, to the time rate of the gain or loss 
of this quantity of magnetic induction, in per second. The voltage E  is given 
by the rate of variation of magnetism.  
 
Change in Magnetism is V olts of E. M.F. 
 
 

--- PAGE 34 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  34  
(II) The law of magneto -dielectric induction, Maxwell' s law. That is, the 
displacement current I, in amperes, is given by the proportionality (ratio) of 
the total quantity of dielectric induction Psi, to the time rate of the gain or 
loss of this quantity of dielectric induction, in per second. The current, I,  is 
given by the time rate  of variation of Dielectricity.  
 
Change in Dielectricity is Amperes of displacement.  
 
 
 In both cases " quickness " is the factor of direct proportionality. Example, 
120 volts at 60 cycles per second applied to a transformer winding results 
in a greater rate of change in magnetism than 110 volts, 60 cycles applied to 
the same winding, despite both being 60 cycles. Why? The slope of 120VAC 
is greater than 110VAC. Try it on your oscilloscope and see.  
 E and I are not to be considered opposites of each other, but they exist in a 
COMPLEMENTARY -SYMMETRY form. The four pole archetype of 
electricity shows itself in that there is E  and e or I and i. This leads to the 
answer for our second question, the null force condition, that is what ratio 
of E to I, and thus e to i give rise to a cancellation of " e pulls"  and "i pushes" . 
Another ratio to be investigated.  Taking the ratio of the E.M.F. E , and the 
displacement I, that is E  over  I, we have evoked " Ohms L aw": The 
dimensional relation of E.M.F., Phi over T ; divided by the dimensional 
relation of displacement, Psi over T. 
 
This results in a new dimensional relation. This relation is known as the 
IMPEDANCE, Z, in OHMS.  
 
E per I equal s Z. 
 
For a given product of E  and I in Watts , we may have a large E  and a small 
I, a high impedance, or we may have a small E  and a large I, a low 

--- PAGE 35 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  35 impedance. Hence, a unit of power (activity) in Watts may be in the form of 
a high impedance (12KV , 1 Amp) o r a low impedance (1KV , 12 Amp), both 
the same power (12 KVA).  
 
Think of the transmission in your car. The engine is delivering 20 
horsepower (activity) and this is delivered to the wheels. The engine is running 1800 R.P.M. (volts), but the drive shaft is running 180 R.P.M. 
(volts). The engine is a high impedance, the driveshaft a low impedance, 
but the power is 20 HP in both.  
 We call this an IMPEDANCE TRANSFORMATION and this is effected by what is known as a TRANSFORMER, (the transmission, it has a RATIO of 
ten to one).  
 
The dimensional relation of impedance, Z in Ohms, can be expressed in an 
alternate manner from the primary dimensions. E  divided by I equals Z, 
Ohms Law. But we have dimensionally , that the E.M.F., E , in volts is given 
by Faraday’s L aw. 
 
 
Likewise the displacement current, I, in Amperes is given by Maxwell’s 
Law. 
 
 Taking the ratio of E over I and substituting, the impedance is given by:  
 
Weber -second per  Coulomb-second equals  Ohms  
 
 

--- PAGE 36 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  36  
Here, dimensionally speaking, we have second per sec ond which is thus 
dimensionless, or scalar, a TIME SCALAR. Hence the primary dimensional expression for impedance, Z in Ohms, is given  as: 
 
Weber s per Coulomb equals  Ohm s 
 
 
 
Hereby the impedance of the electric field of induction is defined as the 
ratio o f the total magnetic induction to the total dielectric induction, Phi 
over Psi gives Ohms Z. This is known as the characteristic impedance of 
the electric field of induction.  
  
[It must be remembered that the sc alar term of seconds per second  
expresses the  hysteresis angle between the time frame for E and the time 
frame for I, as the pair weave their dance thru the dimension of time (note, get that 2D or 3D out of your head, we are in the dimension of time!) The 
ratio Z, the impedance, is therefore a "direc ted quantity"  in the dimension 
of time. This is to say the impedance has magnitude and a position in time. 
Listen to Bach organ music for further as this is too complex for now. ] 
  
Since arriving at the concept of impedance it may be asked . what results 
from its inverse I over E, the ratio of displacement current to electromotive 
force ? This ratio is called the ADMITTANCE , Y, of the electrical system. 
Following the same path dimensionally as was done with impedance it is,  
 
Coulomb – second  Per Weber –  secon d equals  Siemens  
 
 

--- PAGE 37 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  37  
Hence , the admittance Y is given dimensionally by,  
 
Coulombs per Weber equals  Siemens  
 
 
 
Admittance Y in Siemens is the ratio of Psi to Phi, the ratio of the dielectric 
field to the magnetic field of the electric field of induction. This is called the characteristic admittance of the electric field.  
 
As for the scalar term of seconds per second , the same situation exists as 
with the impedance, Z in Ohms. It is how ever that there is also a time 
"angle " between the time frame of impedan ce, Z, in Ohms and admittance, 
Y, in Siemens, just as there is with Volts and Amperes. Hereby results that the impedance is NOT just the inverse of the admittance, that is, Z is NOT 
one over Y, they are MIRROR IMAGES. Look in the mirror. Your head is 
up, y our feet are down, but your right is left and your left is right. This is 
much too complex.  
 
In conclusion, the impedance and admittance serve as proportionality 
factors between the magnetic and the dielectric, or the dielectric and the 
magnetic, fields re spectively.  
 
The End of Time 
 
This dimension of time, and its dimensional relation to electric phenomena, 
thus far has been the primary discussion. This metrical dimension, in 
seconds, and its relation to the substantial dimensions of Q, Psi and Phi has 
yielded a set of fundamental electrical relationships. As of yet the 
dimension of space is regarded as a frontier, occult from the human mind.  
 
The idea of the dimension of time is a relatively modern development, 
beginning with the " age of clocks " in Europe . Out of this evolved the epic 

--- PAGE 38 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  38 time dimensional works of J.S. Bach, 1685 to 1750. Following Bach the 
Newton – Leibniz  system of mathematics allowed for an analytical 
treatment of the dimension of time. The development of a base one number system, such as g iven by A. MacFarlane, and a system of electrical 
dimensional relations by O. Heaviside, led to the epic time dimensional works of C.P . Steinmetz 1 865 to 1923. Steinmetz writing in " Theory and 
Calculation of Transient Electric Phenomena"  stands as an algeb raic analog 
to Bach’s last work, "Die Kunst der Fuge" , BWV –  1080. Time in both 
forward and reverse, as well as multiple hysteretic time frames, within a 
complimentary – symmetrical geometric construct are portrayed in both 
the works of J.S. Bach and C.P. Steinmetz . 
 [A persistent rumor exists, starting with Edison’s attempts to make contact 
with the dead. An unknown Christian organization contracted Steinmetz to 
develop an apparatus to allow viewing in present time the life of Jesus 
Christ in his time. Quite a story but no possible verification. However, in 
the realm of fiction, it was noticed that an old 19 63 Outer Limits episode 
titled "Borderland"  portrayed a layout like Steinmetz may have used in his 
G.E. laboratory. It is unfortunate that few, if any, have, or will follow the 
footsteps of the giants, they are too deep. We will continue to follow their 
path, hard as it may be. ] 
 
Up to this point in time these time sequential internet transmissions have 
been intent in presenting, in a hypo -complex fashion , the primary electrical 
relations .  The only unique dimensional relation has been the Planck, Q. 
The Planck is defined as the undivided quantity, Q, of the total electric 
induction. In a Biblical sense an analog is, " and in the beginning… " Every 
other sub stantial relation found its derivation in the Planck. A pair, Phi and 
Psi, was arrived at by a divorce, four more by direct interaction of a 
substantial dimension with the metrical dimension of time, these being E , I, 
W, P, and finally two more, Z and Y, w ere derived in a pair of paths, one 
path thru the metrical dimension of time, the other path thru direct 
relations of the primary substantial dimensions of Phi and Psi. These give 
us the ONE and a following set of EIGHT.  

--- PAGE 39 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  39 It is important to remember not to  become enamored to our models, or the 
models of others, with regard to the nature of the inductive process, or the 
nature of the medium which engendered it. These constructs, here and 
elsewhere, are illustrative, not concrete, but that is not to say that concrete 
constructs should not be sought. The primary intent and effort here is the 
establishment of concrete engineering formulation applied to the development of specific electrical apparatus. It is goal orientated much like 
the actions of large aggressi ve reptiles.  
 Concluding this sequence of time dimensional relationships , this summary 
and table are given.  
 
Summary Statements and Mathematical Expressions  
 
The One: The U ndivided  Quantity of Electric I nduction  
Given as: The Planck , Q, in Weber –  Coulomb  
 
 
 
The Primary Pair of D imensions  
 
One: The T otal Dielectric I nduction  
Given as: The Coulomb , Psi, 
 , a primary dimension  
 
Two: The Total Magnetic I nduction  
Given as: The Weber , Phi, 
 , a primary dimension  
 
The First Set of Secondary Dimensional R elation s 
 
One: The displacement current  
Given as: The Ampere , I, in Coulomb per second  
 
 

--- PAGE 40 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  40  
Two: The electromotive force  
Given as: The Volt , E, in Weber per secon d 
 
 
 
The Second Set of Secondary Dimensional R elations  
 
Three: The energy.  
Given as: The Joule , W, in Planck per second  
 
 
 
Four: The activity (power).  
Given as: The Watt , P, in Joule per second  
 
. 
 
And F inally , the Pair with Dual D erivation:  
 
One: The impedance.  
Given as: The Ohm , Z, in Volt per Ampere, or in, Weber per Coulomb  
 
 
 
Two: The admittance . 
Given as: The Siemen s, Y, in Ampere per  Volt, or in, Coulomb per Weber  
 
 
 
Also, throughout,  the dimensional relation for time  is given as:  
 
The complex frequency in Neper – radians per second , v. 

--- PAGE 41 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  41  
And thus closes our system of electrical units in a dimen sional relation 
with time.  
 Table 1  
Dielectric  Electric  Magnetic  
 Planck, Q  
Coulomb, 
   Weber, 
  
Ampere, I  Volt, E 
Siemens, Y  Ohm, Z 
 Joule, W  
 Watt, P  
(Neper -Radian s per Second)  
 Space  
Our discussion on the theory of electric phenomena will n ow shift from the 
metrical dimension of time and develop the application of the metrical 
dimension of space. As a frontier, space will be treated in an experimental 
manner. One is cautioned against being, or becoming, enamored to any 
particular concept of space presented here or elsewhere. The importance of 
the study of J.J. Thomson, "Electricity and Matter", and O. Heaviside, "E -M 
Theory" , volume 1, (introductory chapters), cannot be overemphasized . Do 
your homework. And as said by Heaviside, it is said he re; "If you think 
these are hard to read, well, they are even harder to write " (in the front seat 
of my car).  
 
Greater complexity is encountered in the application of the dimension of 
space than that of time. Space relations are not well understood in the 
contemporary engineering world, such as curved space and 2D, 3D 
thinking has all but eliminated any real comprehension of the application 

--- PAGE 42 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  42 of the dimension of space to electrical study.  
 
Relations in the dimension of time are ADDITIVE, relations of forward and 
reverse. Time relations are linear, so to speak, along a versor path in time. 
Not so in the dimension of space, here it is MULTIPLICATIVE. Time relations are arithmetic progressions, whereas space relations are geometric progressions.  
 Consider a numer ical illustration:  
For the time relations, it is;  
3 and 3 gives 6  
For space relations, it is;  
3 and 3 gives 9  
 
Two distinctively different results.  
In time , it is expressed as;  
3 plus 3 equals 6  
In space it is expressed as;  
3 times 3 equals 9  
 
Taking an al ternate approach , we have for time, a pair of 3's, that is, two 3's. 
The same for space, two 3' s. 
Then it is for time;  
3 times 2 equals 6  
And for space it is;  
3 to the 2nd power equals 9  
 
Hence, it can be stated that the time relations are LINEAR , whereas the 
space relations are LOGARITHMIC.  
 
In working with time dimension relations there has been developed a 
versor algebra, an "algebra of time."  The development of this time algebra 
is pri marily due to the efforts of Charles  Proteus Steinmetz of General 
Electric Corp. (also see A. MacFarlane, "The Imaginary of Algebra" ). Versor 
algebra utilizes a BASE ONE number system, that is, the number ONE 

--- PAGE 43 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  43 raised to a specific power. In common use is the base TWO number system, 
binary, and the base TEN number system, dec imal. But a base one number 
system seems unlikely, it can only give one. This is exactly what we want in a versor system, as will be shown.  
 The versor concept applied to time relations has been established in engineering work for practical use, but not so  for space relations. The 
concept of space versor algebra jammed up and seized with what is known as QUATERNIONS . Development of space versors "finished"  with 
quaternions  (see A. MacFarlane " Princ ipals of the Algebra of Physics" ) and 
little else progressed  up to the "Theory of Wireless Power"  by E.P. Dollard 
where a space versor algebra is presented. Note that versors are NOT 
VECTORS.  
 
So as to arrive at an understanding of versor algebra in general it is 
instructive to consider known concepts of versor alg ebra for time. Consider 
a second order time relation. This is given as, 
 a seemingly useless 
statement. An alternate expression is given as, ONE raised to the one half 
power, let us say raised to the PER TWO power , 
. This is a second order 
relationship a nd by definition must give a pair of roots, that is, two distinct 
values, thus the roots are given as (1) Positive one, and (2) Negative one. We will call negative one an IMAGINARY NUMBER. Both roots, (1) and 
(2) are more properly named VERSOR OPERATIONS. Their magnitude is 
unity and they are dimensionless. Therefore, by application to the concept 
of the additive process, it has now been extended to include subtraction. 
(plus and minus). We have arrived at an expression for time phase opposition.  
 Extending these ideas results in a versor expression for fourth order time 
relations, the fourth root of positive one. This is ONE to the ONE FOURTH power (one to the PER FOUR power), 
. This can be partially resolved into 
a pair of square roots, each of which have  two roots, giving the required 
four roots.  

--- PAGE 44 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  44  
It is given that the square root of positive one produces a pair of roots, that 
is, 
 
1) + 1 
2) - 1 
 
Now, in addition, is the second square root, the square root of negative one, 
this producing a pair of roots,  
 
1) + j 
2) - j 
 
Hereby we arrive at the required four roots produced by the fourth root of 
positive one, four to the one fourth. These are given as;  
 
0) + 1 
1) + j 
2) - 1 
3) - j 
 
Here the concept of the additive process, addition, is now further generaliz ed. There is more than only plus and minus. This versor 
expression is for time phase quadrature and for time phase opposition. We now see versors as a degree of lead or lag on a given order of time, here in 
fourth order time. One to the one fourth power gi ves the four quadrature 
versor operators. CAUTION : do not view this as 2D or 4D time, this is 
NOT a VECTORIAL  system. F urther on this is given in the "Symbolic 
Representation"  papers by E.P. Dollard. 
 The versor algebra here given thus far has been orienta ted to represent the 
dimension of time. Versor algebra is based upon degrees or orders of the 
dimension to which they are applied. The following orders of space, in 
terms of perceptual understanding begins the degrees or divisions of the 
dimension of space. The fundamental unit of space here will be the 
centimeter, or cm. 

--- PAGE 45 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  45  
I – First order of space:  
 (a) DISTANCE Space to the positive first power, 
 . 
 (b) SPAN Space to the negative first power, 
 . 
 
II – Second order space:  
 (a) AREA Space to the positive se cond power, 
 . 
 (b) DENSITY Space to the negative second power, 
 . 
 
III – Third order space:  
 (a) VOLUME Space to the positive third power, 
 . 
 (b) CONCENTRATION Space to the negative third power, 
 . 
 
IV – Fourth order space:  
 (a) Space to the positive fou rth power, 
 . 
 (b) Space to the negative fourth power, 
 . 
 
Finally Nth order space.  
 The (a) group are the spatial relations, and the (b) Group are the counter -
spatial relations. Higher order space, such as fourth order lack definition, it 
is undefined spa ce. Einstein 4D space, crystal structured? It remains 
undefined ! 
 
These orders of space can be worked into a simple tale:  
 
I ran out of orange juice, bummer. Now I got to drive a DISTANCE of 15 MILES to the lizard pit (store). Let’s take the 
poodle, along for a chance to get out of the house. Along the 
way I’ll count the number of poles on that old J carrier line, 
they have a SPAN of one PER 150 FEET. The poodle has got to 
stay in the car, that 1000 ACRE AREA of land behind the store 
is infested with coyotes. They have a population DENSITY of 
one PER 50 ACRE. This store only sells juice in a VOLUME of 
half GALLONS. The CONCENTRATION of vitamin C in this 

--- PAGE 46 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  46 juice is one unit daily requirement PER 8 CUBIC OUNCE 
serving. When considering next the fourth order of s pace, the 
dog begins to bark his head off at some UNKNOWN THING. 
Stupid poodle, let’s go.  
 
Break…..  
 
…..more follows on Space.  
 

--- PAGE 47 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  47  
Transmission  7 
 
In Space, Hea viside  
 The Lord G od saith  to Moses: Thus rose the beast, and it arose as a giant 
one winged par rot, this hewn of solid plutonium. She delivereth the beast 
as an idol of worship to her supreme power. The surrounding multitudes 
casteth off their garments so as to feel the warmth of its radiant tongues of 
fire. It came to pass that the beast smote the multitudes by burning their 
eyes and leaving them to wander blind for eternity.  
 Verily this is the present situation for the science of electricity, just as told in 
the parable. Oliver Heaviside, a spurned English theoretician, devoted 
considerable effort  toward straightening the path of progress in electrical 
science. He endeavored to lead the blind out of darkness, but their restored 
sight was only black and white. The idea of electricity as a flow of electrons 
in a conductor was regarded by Heaviside as  a psychosis. This encouraged 
Heaviside to  begin a series of writings to "de-program the Moonies." This 
often utilized "Tragic Tales"  to make his idea clea r about mathematical 
futility. " One such ta le" is of a young child, " and this child would not smile. 
So his father beat him with a strap, in an effort to make him smile. But the child would not smile. Later he was eaten by a lion."  This tale is what 
Heaviside thought about the mathematical system of QUATERNIONS.  
 Quaternions represent a primordial form of a versor space algebra. It is 
however ultimately vectoral. The system of quaternions was a retrofit of the existing concepts of versor algebra that originally were adaptable to 
time, this to provide analogous versor algebra useful for space. It is really 
not much use for this purpose. Oliver Heaviside despised quaternions, leading him to develop his own space mathematics. The work of J.C. 
Maxwell was encumbered by his reliance upon the use of the quaternion 
system. It is this complication with Maxwell that initiated Heaviside’s 
efforts to "remove the baggage"  that encumbered the understanding of 
Maxwell. Heaviside produced his "vector system"  for this effort. He 

--- PAGE 48 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  48 received little credit for his important work, and his famous set of 
equations are wrongly known  as "Maxwell’s Equations" , ask any parrot.  
 Heaviside’s vector system sought to provide a lucid description to the 
Maxwellian concept of electro -magnetism, or rather the Heaviside concept 
of the Maxwellian concept of electro -magnetism. That is transverse e lectro -
magnetism. Plancks, or cross product relations . But this vector system has 
no application to longitudinal magneto -dielectricity. But is not this the 
realm that gave Maxwell his fame? Displacement current, current in empty space, is the Maxwellian co ncept that leads to longitudinal waves. It is most 
likely that most of what is thought to be understood about Maxwell’s work 
is in reality the ideas of others. Absolutely no mention should be made of 
anything Maxwellian without direc tly quoting Maxwell him self through 
his writings! To study his work in its entirety will take a lifetime. So mute 
thyself.  
 
The dis -informers, SSX, heap criticism upon Oliver Heaviside for his one 
sided representation of the works of J.C. Maxwell. Their real motive is to 
take one off the "Heaviside trail" , but the coyote wants to run that path. 
Obviously this series of transmissio ns via internet is in the full "attitude"  of 
Oliver Heaviside. Forgotten in prehistory  is the effort of 19th century 
mathematicians given to space math.  Major figures were Grassman, 
Hamilton, Tait, and MacFarlane. Review of their works provides a better understanding of what has been inherited . Only what Maxwell utilized 
out of necessity, and Heaviside developed out of deliberation exists today. 
Longitud inal electric waves are considered non -existent, a complete 
impossibility. But that is what propagates between the plates of any 
condenser or between the windings of any transformer, physical realities.  
 
So today we labor under an absolutely one sided view  of electricity. It 
cannot stand upright just as a bird with only one wing cannot fly. The 
entire misconc eption has now matured, become "frozen in stone"  as an idol 
of worship to the supreme power of the pedant. In reality it is a monolith of self-edificat ion, taught in every university.  

--- PAGE 49 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  49 The pedantic assault upon the pioneering efforts of Heaviside, Tesla, and 
Steinmetz is worthy of closer examination. Two particular characters, 
supreme pedants sink to the "bottom of the bowl."  One is William Preece of 
the British Royal Society. Preece championed the entirely lopsided view 
prevalent in the " misunderstood, untested, and infested with bugs"  
undersea cable telegraph technology. This errant concept nearly ruined the 
trans -oceanic telegraph industry. It took the  work of Oliver Heaviside to 
"balance the equation"  thereby allowing a working telegraphic system. He 
did this through his serial writings known as " Electro -Magnetic  Induction 
and its Propagation."  These led to his most important develo pment, the 
"Telegrap h Equation."  William Preece F.R.S. censured the work of Oliver 
Heaviside and went so far as to attempt to make his own concept a law.  
 America 's most (wanted) noteworthy pedant is Michael Pupin, of 
Columbia University. Pupin was a supreme pedant. He repeat edly assailed 
Tesla with rude attacks. He even went so far as to perform the same upon C.P . Steinmetz. Steinmetz received harsh criticism for his theory of 
hysteresis, which not only gave Steinmetz his world fame, but also saved 
the infant electrical indus try from ruin. Pupin declared the important 
transformer equations developed by Steinmetz as un -Maxwell, heretical. 
But it is these ideas that lay the foundations of electrical engineering. 
Pupin’s crowning swine behavior is his treatment of Heaviside. Pupin takes 
Heaviside’s telegraph equation, repackages it as a transmission concept, 
patents its implementation, and then sells it to American Telephone & 
Telegraph for $25,000. Long distance telephone is born, with not one word 
of Heaviside. In final disgust,  during the "Einstein Age" , Heaviside 
removed his furniture from the house and sat on granite blocks, then 
painted his fingernails pink. Later he was stoned to death by a pack of 
youngsters.  
 
Application of Space to the  Electric Dimensional Relations 
 
In order to gain an understanding of the electric field of induction , a 
concept of the distribution of this induction in the dimension of space must be developed. An example is a 200 mile long power line. It has a span of 

--- PAGE 50 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  50 600 feet between towers. This is a 230  kilovolt, 60 cycle/sec, 3 phase line. It 
can be shown that for each span of line between supporting structures 
there exist an electro -motive force, E , in Volts, this in series along this span, 
and a displacement current, I, in Amperes, this in shunt along this span. 
The series E.M.F., and the shunt displacement of each span compound with 
each successive span. The total E.M.F. and total displacement for the entire length, 200 miles, of the line is found by integrating over the total number 
of spans. However , this integrated value is not given by the simple addition 
of the individual E.M.F.s and displacements developed b y each of the 
individual spans.  
 
Here we find an exponential function of space determines the relation 
between the individual values, and the  total values of E.M.F. and 
displacement. These considerations are develop ed by Charles P . Steinmetz 
in his " Theory and Calculation of Transient Electric Phenomena"  book , in 
particular the chapter on " Transi ents in Space."  
 
The general problem of the representation in space is giv en by the 
introductory part of "Transients in Space"  and also by Ernst Guillemin in 
the introductory chapters in his "Communications Networks"  vol. 2. Read 
these, they are a most important study. These writings form the basis for 
the theories of electrical engineering utilized today.  
 
The metrical dimension of space is most often considered as a VOLUME, 
this representing an enclosed quantity of space. This space is filled with 
something substantive, often which must be paid for, suc h as a gallon of 
milk. The milk is the substantial dimension, the "throw away"  gallon 
container is the metrical dimension. In general, this volume of space is considered a cubic quantity, or boundary, this such as a cubic foot, cubic 
yard, cubic centimeter , and etc. It is habitual to express a volume in cubic 
terms, this in three mutually perpendicular coordinates , wrongly called 
"dimensions."  It is also habitual to express electric relations in the same 
manner, a corner of a cube, such as Psi, Phi, and Q. This now is three 
dimensional, a 3D relation, since Psi, Phi, and Q are dimensions.  

--- PAGE 51 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  51 The cubic relation itself has no substantive dimensions, it is only the 
metrical dimension of space expressed by a group of three mutually 
perpendicular coordinates . This is important.   
 It is given here that a one centimeter cube is the elemental unit of the 
dimension of space, a volume of one cubic cm. This is about the size of a common sugar cube, but instead of sugar, this cube is filled with electric 
induction. It is a cube of electricity. What exists outside the boundaries of 
this cube is for now unknown, it is excluded by the boundaries. For most of 
the examples that follow, all space is filled with 10 -C transformer oil, the 
dielectric. All boundaries enclosing, or d ividing, this space are sheet 
copper, the metallic. Here given is the metallic-dielectric geometry, such as a power transformer, or a static condenser, two fundamental apparatus in 
electrical work.  
 
In the case of the 200 mile long A.C. power line the basi c element of space 
is the span. This is first order space. Here it is given as per 600 feet, this 
now a unit value. It now equals one, one span. This unit value is known as 
a differential element, it is indivisible, the smallest "line on the ruler."  It 
relates to the Newton-Leibniz concept of the infinitesimal s. 
 
It is considered that cubic, or third order space, is the most general 
expression of space, a metrical dimension. Since the ordinary transformers 
and condensers utilized in power engineering are of considerable volume, 
it is then allowable to consider one cubic cm. as a differential element, that  
is, an infinitesimal quantity o f space. Taking the, one cubic cm  of space, as a 
unit value, gives the differential element of the metrical dimension of 
space. It is hereby about the size of a sugar cube, but filled with 10 -C oil. 
Hence the VOLUME is given as ONE cubic cm, the AREA as ONE square 
cm, the DISTANCE as ONE cm, the SPAN as ONE per cm , the DENSITY as 
ONE per square cm , and the CO NCENTRATION as ONE per cubic cm , all 
faces, corners, spacings, and etc. of this unit cube are ONE. Hence our differential, indivisible, element of the metrical dimension of space. All 
orders, or powers, of this space equals one, one squared is one, one cubed 
is one, and etc.  All are one.  

--- PAGE 52 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  52  
This may just as well have been a cubic yard, or a cubic n anometer. The 
consideration of "unit value"  is to reduce the size to the point to which 
there is no distinguishable variation of the substantive dimension with 
respect to the unit of the metrical dimension of space. It is then a space 
scalar condition, no variation in space. For example, consider the 200 mile long A.C. power line. It has a propagation velocity very near that of light. 
For a frequency of 60 cycles per second, this gives  the wavelength as 2880 
miles in length. The total distance of this line is 200 miles, this a significant fraction of a quarter wave or an impedance to admittance transformation. 
However the per 600 feet of a span is an infinitesimal fraction of the quarter wave distance. Hence the distance between towers, the spans, serve as the 
differential element. It is then 600 feet is of unit value, indivisible. There are 
no intervening towers.  
 
No perceptible variation of the series E.M.F., E  in Volts, or the shunt 
displacement, I in Amperes, exist along this 600 foot span of A.C. power 
line. Hereby it is said the E.M.F. per span, or the displacement per span. In 
the general case it is given as Volts per span and Amperes per span. These 
dimensional relations represent  the voltage gradient and current gradient 
along the length of line. Dimensionally it is;  
 
   1) Volts per cm,  
  and  2) Ampere s per cm,    
  
 It should be noted that this pair of gradients exist in space quadrature to 
the previous given grad ients:  
 the dielectric gradient is:  
, 
 
and the magnetic gradient is:  
. 

--- PAGE 53 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  53  
This is a fundamental relation in electro -magnetic induction and its 
propagation.  
 
It can be seen that each span has a back E.M.F. in series with the power 
flow, and a displacement, or charging , current in shunt with the power 
flow. These are a consequence of the electric field of induction in a time rate 
of variation, the 60 cycle, or 377 radians per second.  
 These are transmission impairments
 and give rise to a delay in propagation 
which progr essively compounds down the line, from span to span. These 
differential elements, or spans, must be summed up, or INTEGRATED, in order to determine the total E.M.F., total displacement, and the total delay 
in propagation. This is not so easy of a task. Now  for higher orders of space 
the situation is that order more difficult.  
 In the application of the metrical dimension of space to the substantial 
dimensions of electricity, the concept of magnetic inductance, and electro -
static capacity, are utilized. Steinmetz, in his "Impulses, Waves, and 
Discharges" , established the inducta nce and the capacitance as the "Energy 
Storage"  coefficients of the electric field of induction. It must be noted that 
here the term ELECTRIC FIELD is N OT the " electro -static " field, it is the 
union of the dielectric and magnetic fields of induction. Erase the "electric 
field"  wording of the one wing parrot. These two distinct dimensional 
relations, the INDUCTANCE and the CAPACITANCE serve to define the ability of bounded space to conta in the electric field of induction, this field 
representing STORED ENERGY.  
 
What follows here is the development of the properties related to the 
dielectric and magnetic fields and the interaction of these with the 
bounding metallic -dielectric geometry. Co nsiderations involving energy 
will be arrived at later on. In this view inductance and capacitance now 
represent GEOMETRIC COEFFICIENTS, expressing the relation of the 
BOUNDING GEOMETRY with the fields of induction which it bounds. In 
essence inductance an d capacitance are of a scalar form. Here enters the 

--- PAGE 54 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  54 concepts of what  is known as " Radionics ." The inductance and capacitance 
each exist in distinction to the electricity itself. The inductance and 
capacitance ultimately serve as geometric expressions. This  is important. 
Hereby they can be expressed as completely metrical dimensional relations, that is, having no substantive dimension.  
 
We have of yet actually given the dimensional relations which make up 
inductance and capacitance. Further considerations in volving the electric 
field have yet to be understood.   
Basic  Electrical Relations in Space  
 
Let a one centimeter cube of the metrical dimension of space be given as 
unit space. The given metrical boundaries define a unit cube, a sugar cube 
with no sugar, no 10 -C oil, not even any aether. This cube of space is empty, 
void. This unit of space, a metrical unit, is NOT in connection with any 
substantial dimension. This is a unit cube of void space.  
 It is postulated that electric induction, as a property of the aether, cannot be 
established without the presence of this aether, or another dielectric 
medium. This is to say, void space is not capable of supporting electric 
induction. Hereby it is reasoned that the aether is a substantive dimension, 
or it can be ex pressed as a substantive dimensional relation. The 
dimensional expression of the aether it is best given as a primary 
dimension, expressed only in a dimensional relation derived from a 
primary substantive dimension and its relationship to a primary metrica l 
dimension, time or space. This is served by the concept of the Planck, Q, 
this in conjunction with a space versor system expressing the Planck in real 
(electro -magnetic ) components. See E.P . Dollard "Theory of Wireless 
Power."  
 In general we have been sp eaking in terms of line of force that is lines of 
magnetic and lines of dielectric in duction. It is as of yet known "how big"  
these lines of force may be. These lines of induction can be expressed 
analogously, such as a bag of uncooked spaghetti. Its indiv idual strands 

--- PAGE 55 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  55 serve as analogs to the individual lines of induction. Hence long, thin, 
strands with axes in a broadside bundle. If then the bag of spaghetti is 
snapped in two, when it is viewed endwise, a circular cluster of small end -
sections of each stra nd are seen. These are elements of the strands of 
spaghetti.  
 
This package of spaghetti is an analog to the total dielectric induction. Now 
there are 100 strands of spaghetti in this package, or boundary condition. 
Here Psi is then given as 100 strands, th e total quantity of spaghetti. 
Viewing this package endwise, 100 end sections of the individual strands are seen in a circular bundle. The cross sectional area of this bundle, bounded by the package is a one square inch, AREA. This is analogous to a 
dielectric flux DENSITY, the density of dielectric induction in PER 
SQUARE INCH. Hence the density of spaghetti is given as 100 strands per 
square inch. The total undivided quantity of spaghetti is 100 strands. The 
substantive dimension of spaghetti is in contai nment by the "throw away"  
package, this as the metrical dimension of space. Counter -spatial 
representation is given as 100 strands per square inch. The grocery store 
regards this as one indivisible unit quantity in space of spaghettic 
induction.  
 
Here the substantial dimension of spaghetti, Psi, is operated upon 
mathematically by the metrical dimension of space, per square inch. Here 
arrived at is the dimensional representation of spaghetti in space, strands 
per square inch. This is a second order space rel ation, in a counter -spatial 
form. 
 
A pair of dimensional relations follow from the spaghetti analogy.  
 
One is the D ielectric Flux D ensity, Psi over A , 
 
       (1) Coulombs per square cm,      
 

--- PAGE 56 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  56  
Two is  the Magnetic Flux D ensity, Phi over A , 
 
       (2) Webers per square cm,           
  
 
Here A is the area in square cm, a second order expression of space. A 
primary dimensional expression for second order space is the ACRE.  
 
Since the total electric induction, Q, is the product of the dielectricity, Psi, 
and of the magnetism, Phi, it may be asked, what of the product of the 
dielectric flux density,  and the magnetic flux density?  
 This is given as,  
 (3) Coulomb per square cm,   
    times     Weber per square cm,   
  
 
Substituting the dimensional relation,  
 
 (4) Coulomb -Weber, or Planck,    
  
 
Hereby gives the dimensional relation of the product of the flux densities 
as, 
 
 (5) Planck per quartic  cm,     
  
 
So, the product of the pair of flux densities, (1) and (2) g ives rise to a fourt h 
order space relation (5),  in its counter -spatial form.  
  
Now , what set off the poodle this time?  
 

--- PAGE 57 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  57  
Transmission  8 
 
Experimental  Cubic Volumes  
 It has been heretofore established an existence of a volumetric, or cubical, 
unit of space, the metrical dimension. This unit of the dimension of space is 
defined as one cubic centimeter, the size of a common sugar cube. It is 
given this metrical cubic volume of space is void of any substantive 
dimension, no sugar, no 10 -C oil, and even no aether, since aether is 
considered a substantive dimensional relation. Hence, indivisible, void, 
and a pure metrical unit, this is our cubic volume of EMPTY SPACE.  
Consider the axiom that a field of electric induction cannot exist in the 
absence of the aether. Then just how does this cubic void space inter act 
with an electric field? Since the laws of lines of force as established by 
Michael Faraday, and developed by J.J. Thomson, and as further 
established by C.P . Steinmetz, maintain that no line of force can just end in 
space. The lines of magnetic induction exist as closed loops, no beginning, 
no end, continuous expansive or contractive loops. Magnetism is a 
circumferential force. In a conjugate manner the lines of dielectric 
induction terminate upon physical surfaces, where they bond into the 
intra -molecu lar dimensions. Dielectricity is a radial force.  
 The Maxwell concept of electro -magnetic induction and its propagation 
gives an altered concept of the nature of dielectric induction. In this 
situation the lines of dielectric induction may also terminate u pon 
themselves, forming closed curves in a manner analogous to the loops of magnetic induction. This condition is a necessity for the propagation of 
electro -magnetic waves in a dielectric medium, (sugar, oil, aether, etc.) 
without guiding metallic structur es (wires, waveguides, etc.) This 
eliminates the "charge carrier" , that is, the dielectric induction is now 
completely independent of any terminal surfaces. The dielectric induction 
is now completely dielectric. This is the fundamental concept underlying 
the Maxwell theory of electromagnetism . It is here that J.C. Maxwell found 
his fame. But the pedant tells us just the exact opposite! So intent i s this 

--- PAGE 58 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  58 mind -state in forcing a " materialism"  upon electrical theory that Maxwell’s 
work is reworked  to suit this  view . 
 
It may be logically inferred hereby that, for the condition of a cubic volume 
of space, the lines  of magnetic, and the lines of electric, induction must 
bend around this cubic void of space. These lines cannot be interrupted or 
broken by this void.  Hence by the insertion of a cubic void into a space 
supporting electric induction the lines of force are pushed aside. The overall induction in the supportive space is then hereby reduced, since now 
there is a unit volume less of this space. This is to sa y that the inductivity of 
the supportive space is reduced by the insertion of an aetherless cubic 
volume of space, the cube of empty space
. 
 Consider certain experimental configurations. One configuration consists 
of a widely spaced pair of laser produced beams of light, side by side 
traveling through the aetheric medium. The second configuration is a pair of one square centimeter copper plates. These two plates face each other 
squarely and are separated by a span of one centimeter. This defines a 
partial b oundary for our one cubic centimeter, or unit, cube. Hence any 
unit cube volume can be inserted between the pair of one square cm copper plates. It is also given that all space within and surrounding these copper squares is void, no sugar, no oil, no aethe r, just empty space.  
 In our first experimental configuration we have a set of three unit cubes, 
one is filled with 10 -C oil, the second is filled with aether, and the third is 
void. Taking the side by side spaced laser beams, we measure the speed, or 
time  delay of propagation of both beams through supporting aether 
through which they propagate. Here, both arrive at the end point at the same time, thus propagating at identical velocities of propagation. First, 
take the unit cube of oil and insert it into be am number one, leaving beam 
number two unchanged. It is hereby found that beam one arrives delayed 
in time relative to the arrival time of beam two. Here it can be inferred that 
light travels slower in the oil. By measurement it is found to be about 70 
percent of the light velocity in the aether.  

--- PAGE 59 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  59 Next, take a unit cube of aether and insert this cube into beam one, again 
leaving beam two unaltered. Obviously both beams arrive at the same time 
since both propagate through only aether.  
 Finally, take a unit c ube of void space and insert it into beam one, beam 
two again unaltered. The poodle begins to bark. We now have two 
distinctly opposing possible outcomes.  
 (A) Beam one is stopped at the facing boundary of the cubic void. No beam 
one is detected at the receiving end. Now it may be asked, what became of 
beam one? Was it sent back, or was it consumed, thus in violation of the Law of Energy Perpetuity? This we are unable to answer.  
 (B) Beam one arrives advanced in time relative to the arrival time of beam 
two, this to say, that the propagation through the void space is now 
instantaneous, in other words with an infinite ( undefined ) velocity. It takes 
no time to span the distance of the unit void space. How is this possible?  
 
Now we take our next experimental co nfiguration, the pair of parallel one 
square cm. copper plates, these in void space. Thus far we have no concept defining capacitance, but we do possess a capacitance meter. How 
fortunate! Upon connecting this instrument to the unit copper plates in a 
void  it is found that this metallic -dielectric configuration has zero capacity. 
This is understandable since we now have no dielectric, and hence, no 
dielectric induction.  
 
Next, we insert a unit cube of aether between the unit square copper plates. 
Now the in strument indicates one electro -static unit of capacitance, this as 
expected.  
 
Finally, we insert a unit cube of 10 -C oil between the unit square copper 
plates. Now the instrument indicates an increase in capacitance over that of 
the aether. This increase in capacitance is in EXACT proportion to the 
square (second power) of the decrease in the velocity of light through the 
same identical cube of oil. It is then given, the change in the velocity of 

--- PAGE 60 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  60 light through a dielectric medium is the square root of the inverse of the 
change in capacitance a ffected by this dielectric medium. Hence 
capacitance exists in a direct relationship with the velocity of light in a given medium. Zero capacitance, infinite velocity.  
 Hereby this d imensional relation is given as:  
 
Seconds Squared  Per Centimeters Squared    
 
 
This is to say, one over the speed of light squared, that is, one over c  
squared . Here it is useful to take the speed of light as a unit value, or one. 
See for example, C.P . Steinmetz's  "Impulses, Waves, and Discharges", 
chapter on "Velocity Measure."  It is in this relationship between luminal 
velocity and electro -static capacity that we find the luminal velocity 
concepts of the relativists, the c  squared  in the E equals mc squared.  Call it 
a "dimensional fluke"  if you wish. However, capacitance is forever married 
to the velocity of light, to one over c  squared . 
 
Investigating dielectric capacitance a bit further, consider an experiment of 
Ben Franklin, the father of the electro -static condenser. Here we will dispel 
the "electronics nerd"  concept that a capacitor stores "electrons"  in its 
plates. Taking the pair of copper plates as in the previous experiment, but 
now we have two pairs of plates, one pair of plates distant from the other pair of plates. Upon one pair o f plates is imposed an electro -static potential 
between them. The cube of 10 -C oil is inserted between this "charged"  set of 
plates. This hereby establishes a dielectric field of induction within the unit 
cube of 10 -C oil. Now we then remove this cube of o il, withdrawing it from 
the space bounded by the charged pair of copper plates, and taking this 
unit cube of oil, it is then inserted into the space bounded by the other 
uncharged  pair of plates. Upon insertion it is found that the un -charged 
pair of plate s have now in fact become charged also. It here can be seen that 
a cube of dielectric induction can be carried through space, from one set of 
plates to another set of plates.  

--- PAGE 61 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  61  
This induction is contained by the boundaries of the 10 -C oil. Well golly -
gee M r. Wizard, what ha ppened to all those electrons, isn’t oil an insulator?  
 
Here given has been various examples of dimensional relations involving 
space. First order space has been the long distance power line, second order space has been the package of spa ghetti, third order space has been the 
cube of 10 -C transformer oil, and, over the incessant barking of the poodle, 
fourth order space has been invoked as a product of conjugate flux 
densities.  
 
With the understanding hereby developed , it is now possible t o enter 
development of the concept of inductance and of capacitance, along with their use in the application of the metrical dimension of space to the 
substantial dimensions of electric induction. From this can be derived a 
substantive concept of the aethe r. 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 62 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  62 Transmission  9 
 
Inductance  and Capacitance 
 
In its most general form , the basic concept of an electrical configuration in 
electrical engineering terms is;  
 
1. A metallic-dielectric geometric structure,  
2. A bound electric field of induction, this representing STORED ENERGY within the containing geometric structure,  and 
3. An exchange of electrical and mechanical forces between the electric 
field and the material geometric structure.  
 
It is in statement 3) that the concepts of INDUCTANCE and of 
CAPACITANCE en ter the electric dimensional relations. It is through the 
dimensional relations of inductance and capacitance that the electric field 
engages in the interaction with the geometry in which it is bound. It is also 
here that we find the most significant dimensional misrepresentations 
which occlude the understanding of the phenomenon of electricity.  
 
The existence of the dielectric field of induction, Psi, in Coulombs, gives 
rise to an electro -static potential, e , in Volts. Conversely an electro -static 
potentia l, e, in Volts, gives rise to the dielectric field, Psi, in Coulomb. It is a 
"chicken or egg" , a matter of versor position along a cycle. Here we have a 
pair of dimensional relations, Psi,  and, e, that exist in proportion to each 
other. It hereby follows t hat a proportionality factor must exist expressing 
the ratio of the pair of dimensional relations, Psi, in Coulomb, and e , in 
Volt. Considering the dielectric induction as a primary dimension, not a dimensional relation, then the variation of the primary d imension is with 
respect to the secondary dimension. Primary per secondary, Psi per e . An 
example is a package of spaghetti, spaghetti is a primary dimension, package, per square inch a secondary dimension. Hence the dimensional 
relation of the proportion of dielectric, Psi, in Coulombs, to the electro -
static potential, e , in Volts.  

--- PAGE 63 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  63 This is then given as:  
   Volts equals Coulombs per Farad,      
  
 
The ratio, Psi over e , establishes a new dimensional relation. This re lation, a 
factor of proportion i s called  the CAP ACITANCE, C, in FARAD. That is,  
 
   Farad s equals Coulombs per Volt       
  
 
If then it takes a very small magnitude of electro -static potential, e , to 
engender a very large quantity of dielectric induction, Psi, then the 
geometry supporting this induction is said to have a high capacitance, C. It 
is then called a CAPACITOR. One electro -static unit of capacitance is close 
to one Pico -farad , the one over c  squared  renders this 10 percent off.  
 
Thus we can state a " Law of Dielectric Proportion" , C, in Farads, is the 
proportion of the QUANTITY of dielectric induction, Psi, in Coulomb s, to 
the MAGNITUDE of electro -static potential, e , in Volts. The Coulomb per 
Volt, or Farad of electro -static capacity.  
 It hereby follows that for a  given "package" , or qua ntity, of dielectric 
induction, a variation of the capacitance must give rise to a proportional variation of the electro -static potential, that is, a decrease in capacitance 
must give rise to an increase in electro -static potential. This is the Law of 
Dielectric Proportion.  
 
The same line of reasoning follows for the magnetic field of induction. The 
existence of the magnetic field, Phi,  in Weber s, gives rise to a 
magnetomotive  force, or M.M.F., i , in Amperes. Again , it is a versor, 
chicken or egg.  
 
Here aga in is a pair of dimensional relations that exist in proportion to each 
other, Psi and i .  

--- PAGE 64 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  64  
Thus the ratio, or fa ctor of proportion, is given as:  
 
       Weber per Ampere,   
 
 
The ratio of Psi to i  results in a new dimensional relation. This factor of 
proportion is the dimensional relation called INDUCTANCE, L , in Henry. L 
equals Phi over i. L in Henry is the proportionality factor between the 
quantity of magnetic induction to the magnitude of the M.M.F. The Weber 
per Ampere, or Henry of magnetic inductance.  
 
It then follows, for a given "package" , or quantity of magnetic induction, 
that a variation of the inductance must give rise to a variation of the M.M.F. This is to say, a decrease in inductance must give rise to a proportional 
increase in current, or  M.M.F. This is the Law of Magnetic Proportion.  
 
Heretofore established is th e pair of dimensional relations:  
 
    1) The Law of Dielectric Proportion  
 
Coulomb per Volt, or Farad, C     
 
  
    2) The Law of Magnetic Proportion  
 
Weber per Ampere, or Henry, L     
 
 

--- PAGE 65 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  65  
Reduction to Primary Dimensions  
 
In the expressions for the law of dielectric proportion, and the law of magnetic proportion, that is, the capacitance and inductance, the relations 
are not given entirely in primary dimensions. Both e , in Volts,  and i, in 
Amperes, are not primary dimensions, they are secondary dimensional 
relations. These relations must be expanded in order to express capacitance 
and inductance in terms of primary dimensions only.  
 By the Law of Magnetic Induction  
 
   1) Volt, or  Weber per Second      
  
 And the Law of Dielectric Induction  
 
   2) Ampere, or Coulomb per Second      
  
 
Combining terms, for the dielectric capacitance  
 
   3) Farad, or Coulomb per Volt       
  
 
or by substitution,  
   Farad equals Coulomb -Second per Weber    
  
 This is the primary dimensional relation expressing capacitance, C, in 
Farad. Now the primary dimension of Time has re -emerged into what has 
been a space relation. More on this later.  
 
It was established early on that the ratio of the total dielectr ic induction, 
Psi, to the total magnetic induction, Phi, gives rise to the dimensional 
relation, Y, the admittance in Siemens. By substituting  the dimensions of 
Siemens for t he ratio Coulomb per Weber,  into the expression for Farad,  

--- PAGE 66 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  66  
this gives  rise to:  
 
   4) Farad, or Coulomb –  Second Per Weber  
 
 
 
And g ives,  
 
   5) Farad, or Siemens –  Second  
 
 
 
Rearrangement  of terms in 5) results in an  important dimensional relation  
 
   6) Farad per Second, or Siemens  
 
 
 
That is, C over T gives the dimensional relation of Siemens. This new 
relation is the SUSCEPTANCE , B, in Siemens. It is hereby established that 
the dimensional relation of Siemens can now be expressed in two distinct 
forms,  
    7) Admittance, Y , in Coulomb per Weber 
 
 
 
   8) Susceptance , B, in  Farad per Second 
 
 
 
More on this later on.  

--- PAGE 67 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  67 The same considerations apply to the magnetic field of induction, and its 
Law of Magnetic Proportion, the inductance, L , in Henry. 
 
   9) Weber per Ampere, or Henry . 
 
 
 
Substituting gives,  
 
   10) Weber –  Second per Coulomb,  or Henry.  
 
 
 
And by the relation,  
 
   11) Weber per Coulomb, or Ohm  
 
 
 It is then given,  
 
   12) Ohm – Second, or Henry  
 
 
 And t hus, 
 
   13) Henry per Second, or Ohm.  
 
 
 This hereby derived dimensional relation for Ohm, or Henry per second, is  
called the REACTANCE, X , in Ohm. Again, as with the Siemens, a dual 
dimensional relation exist with regard to the Ohm, the impedance, Z, and the reactance, X . 

--- PAGE 68 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  68 We here have established a new pair of dimensional relations. These 
relations involve a time ra te of variation, this analogous to the time rate 
relations, the Faraday and Maxwell Laws of Induction, given again,  
    A) Farad per Second or Siemens, B 
 
 
 
   B) Henry per Second or Ohm, X  
 
 
 
Two alternate views present themselves as to the time rate of  variation. One 
is the condition that the capacitance and inductance in themselves are constants, time invariants, it is that the forces, electro -static potential, and 
magneto -motive force, are time variant. The e , and i , are in variation with 
respect to time. This is the condition for the relations of susceptance, B , in 
Siemens, and of reactance, X , in Ohms.  
 For example, take a one Henry inductance coil. The given line voltage is 
120 volts A.C. in variation at a rate of 377 radians per second, or 60 cycle s 
per second. Hereby the reactance of the one (1) Henry inductor is thus the 
product of 1 and 377 or 377 Ohms, or Henry per Second. The application of 
120 volts A.C. to this inductor hereby gives rise to a current of,  
 
 Ampere, or Volt per Ohm.  
 For the s ake of simplicity , let us say this is about a quarter ampere, one 
fourth of an amp. The product of 120 volts and one fourth amp gives the electrical activity as  
 
 Volt – Ampere  or 30 Volt –  Ampere reactive.  

--- PAGE 69 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  69 This is the electrical activity of the one Henr y coil across 120 volt A.C. at 60 
cycles.  
 
Carrying the Law of Magnetic Proportion one step further, this one Henry 
inductance coil, in its windings, has 1000 passes, or turns around its core. 
This hereby gives rise to a M.M.F. of 1000 times one fourth amp ere, or a 
total of 250 ampere - turns. This magnetomotive  force, or compound current 
is developed in a one, 1, Henry coil. Hereby, by the Law of Magnetic Proportion, for a current of one quarter ampere through 1000 turns gives 
rise to the quantity of magnetic induction, 250 Webers.  
 
The Variation of Inductance and Capacitance With Respect to Time  
 
We have heretofore established a new pair of dimensional relationships. 
These are the magnetic inductance, L, in Henry, and the electro -static 
capacity, C, in Fara d. Derived from these dimensional relatio ns is a pair of 
electrical laws.  
 
 (I) The Law of Dielectric Proportion : 
  The ratio of the quantity of dielectric induction, Psi in Coulomb to the 
  magnitude of the electro -static potential, e , in Volt.  
 
    (1) C oulomb per Volt,  or Farad  
 
 
  (II) The Law of Magnetic Proportion : 
  The ratio of the quantity of magnetic induction, Phi, in Weber, to the  
  magnitude of the M.M.F., i , in Ampere.  
 
    (2) Weber per Ampere,  or Henry  
 
 

--- PAGE 70 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  70  
Through algebraic rearrangement  a pair of secondary dimensional 
relations alternately define, in a new form, the total dielectric induction, 
Psi, in Coulomb, and the total magnetic induction, Phi, in Weber.  
 
For the dielectric induction,  
     (3) Coulomb, or Volt –  Farad  
 
 
 And for the magnetic induction,  
     (4) Weber, or, Ampere –  Henry  
 
 
 
Hence, the total dielectric induction, Psi, in Coulomb, is the product of the 
potential, e, in volt s, and the capacitance, C, in Farad s. Likewise, the total 
magnetic induction, Phi, in Weber s, is the product of the M.M.F., i , in 
Ampere s, and the inductance, L, in Henry s 
 
Psi equals e times C      
  
 
Phi equals i times L      
  
 In the expression of the variation of the parameters which constitute the 
dimensional relations involving capacitance and i nductance, two distinct 
conditions can exist. First is the capacitance and the inductance are time invariant, and the variation with respect to time resides in the relations of 
potential, e, and of M.M.F., i. Here derived are the susceptance  and the 
reacta nce. In the alternate form of expression, it is the potential, e , and the 
M.M.F., i, that are time invariant, and the variation with respect to time 
resides in the relations of capacitance and inductance as geometric 
coefficients. Geometry in time variatio n. 

--- PAGE 71 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  71  
In general, time invariance of L and C, or time invariance of e  and i each can 
be considered as a limiting case. Each can be in variation with respect to time at their own individual time rates. That is, for the dielectric both C and 
e can be in varia tion, and for the magnetic both L and i can be in variation. 
Consider the A.C. induction motor. Here is form of magnetic inductance in which both the inductance, L, and the M.M.F., i , are in time variation, L  
with the rotational geometric variation, and i  with the rotational variation 
of M.M.F. The difference between the rotational frequency of i  is called the 
slip frequency. The rotor continuously falls behind the rotation of the magnetic field, dragging energy out of this field and delivering it to the output shaft of the motor.  
 Considering the pair of prima ry dimensional relations, it is:  
 
For the dielectric induction  
 
    (5) Farad per second, or  Siemens  
 
 
 
And for the magnetic induction  
 
    (6) Henry per second, or  Ohm  
 
 
 
 
It is established that a d istinct pair of conditions exist with regard to the 
variation with respect to time. Either the capacitance or inductance is in 
variation, or the potential or M.M.F. is in variation, with respect to time.  
 

--- PAGE 72 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  72 For the condition of time invariant L and C it is given  
 
    (7) Farad per second, or Siemens,  The Susceptance , B 
 
 
     (8) Henry per second, or Ohm,  The Reactance, X  
 
 
 
In the second case , the L and C are in variation with respect to time. The 
forces, i and e, are held constant, or time invariant. Her e the variation with 
respect to time exists with the Metallic –  Dielectric geometry itself. This 
hereby produces a variation in the geometric coefficients  of capacitance or 
inductance.  
 
These relations are given as:  
 
    (9) Farads per second, or Siemens,  The Conductance, G  
 
 
 
    (10) Henry per second, or Ohm,  The Resistance, R  
 
 
 
This CONDUCTANCE, G , and this RESISTANCE, R, represent the 
relations derived from the time variation of capacitance and from the time 
variation of inductance, respectively.  
 It is through this form of parameter variation that the energy stored in the 
electrical field bounded by the geometric structure is here given to an external form. This is to say, energy is taken out of the electric field and delivered elsewhere.  

--- PAGE 73 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  73  
For a clos ed system, the energy stored within the electric field is lost, or 
dissipated, from this system. It is then ENERGY LEAKAGE from the closed system. Considering the condition of a time invariant, or stationary 
geometric structure, this structure exhibiting the dissipation of the energy 
stored within the electric field bound by the structure, the conductance, G , 
and the Resistance, R, are the representations of energy leakage from the 
dielectric and magnetic fields respectively.  
 For exa mple, consider one span  of a "J carrier"  open wire transmission pair. 
Here the conductance, G , is the "leakage conductance"  of the glass 
telephone insulator, the resistance, R, is the "electronic resistance" of the copper weld  telephone wire. These represent the energy dissipatio n of one 
span of line.  
 
This conductance, G, represents a " molecular loss " WITHIN the glass of the 
insulator. This resistance, R, represents a "molecular loss"  WITHIN the 
metal of the wire. Hence it is the molecular losses of the metallic-dielectric 
geomet ry itself that gives rise to an energy leakage from a closed system. 
The molecular agitation and cyclic hysteresis exist within the molecular dimensions of the physical mass of the bounding geometric structure.  
 
These consist of a multitude of minute varia tions of the capacitance and 
inductance of the geometric form. On a microscopic level the material 
substance of this form is indefin ite, a kind of blur in space, due to the 
multitude of minute variations of positions in space. These tiny motions, 
hereby through parameter variation, convert the energy stored in the 
electric field into random patterns of radiation. By experiment it can be 
shown that this energy leakage exists in proportion to the temperature of 
the material form storing energy w ithin its bound electric field.  
 
In general, the electrostatic potential, e, in Volt, renders the insulators hot, 
the magnetomotive  force, i, in Ampere, renders the wires hot. Also, it is 
found that this heating increases with increasing frequency of the potential, 
e, or the M.M.F., i . It is here where the prevailing concept of the "electron"  is 

--- PAGE 74 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  74 to be found. Hence it is the motions of the electrons that give rise to the 
energy loss in an electrical system.  
 Electrons represent energy dissipation. However, the pedant, the  mystic, 
and the dis -informer all tell us that the electron is what conveys energy, the 
complete opposite!  
 Parameter Variation Contin ued 
 
In the last section the dimensional relations of conductance and resistance 
were developed for the condition of a sta tic, or stationary, metallic-
dielectric geometry. The conductance represents the leakage of energy from 
the dielectric field, and the resistance represents the leakage of energy from 
the magnetic field. Energy loss is internal to the physical mass which 
constitutes the metallic-dielectric geometry. This loss is of molecular form.  
 
Instead of the parameter variation resulting from internal motions, there 
exists the parameter variation which results from external motion. This 
parameter variation with respect to time is the result of the contiguous 
parts of the geometric form being in relative motion with respect to each 
other. Again the A.C. induction motor serves as an example of such a 
geometric structure. Here is a metallic- dielectric geometric structure with 
relative motion between its physical parts. A m otor or a generator operate 
through parameter variation via rotational motion. An examp le is the 
common "Electro-static" generator, such as the " Wimshurst  Machine" , a 
rotating variable electro -static conden ser. 
 
In general the metallic-dielectric geometry delivers mechanical force as an 
electric motor, or is driven by mechanical force as an electric generator. 
Mechanical/Electrical parameter changes, these as, Farad per second and 
Henry per second, give rise to the metallic-dielectric geometry becoming 
and electric motor, taking energy from the field, or becoming an electric 
generator, giving energy to the field.  

--- PAGE 75 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  75 In the case which the geometry is taking energy as an electric motor, it is 
for a dielectric mac hine, a parametric Conductance, G , results,  
 
    (1) Farad per second  equals Conductance, G, in  Siemens  
 
 
 
And for a magnetic machine, a parametric Resistance, R, results  
     (2) Henry per second  equals  Resistance, R, in Ohms . 
 
 
 
R and G here represent the removal of energy from the electric field, just as 
with the condition of molecular losses.  
 
For the condition of a mechanically driven metallic-dielectric geometry giving energy as an electric generator, an alternate form of dimensional 
expression is d esired. These expressions serve to distinguish that part of 
the relations which represent the loss of energy as distinct from that part of the relations which represent the gain of energy. The squa re root of positive 
one is the "operator"  which distinguish es the gain part from loss part. It is 
supply, or demand.  
 
These alternate dimensional relations are, for the dielectric field,  
 
    (3) Farad per second  equals t he Acceptance, S , in Siemens  
 
 
 
And for the magnetic field,  
 
    (4) Henry per second  equals the Receptance, H, in Ohms  
 
 

--- PAGE 76 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  76  
Hence for the dielectric machine an ACCEPTANCE, S, in Siemens, and for 
a magnetic machine a RECEPTANCE, H, in Ohm. Where R and G represent 
energy consumption coefficients , and S and H represent energy production 
co-efficient s. 
 
A few observations are in order here. First, existing technology produces 
machines which are strictly magnetic, such as the A.C. induction motor, or 
strictly dielectric, such as the W imshurst  Machine. No machine is produced 
where the magnetic and the d ielectric fields work together in an electric 
field. What relationship of the forces, potential, e , and M.M.F., i, gives rise 
to equal and opposite mechanical force, this now applied to a rotating 
geometry?  
 
Second, not all parameter changes are the result  of mechanical forces, nor 
random molecular motions. The magn etic amplifier is one such case, h ere a 
parametric inductance controlled by an auxiliary M.M.F. On the molecular level, certain plasma discharge tubes, such as the common fluorescent 
lighting tub e, give rise to an assortment of parameter variations which can 
produce as well as consume energy from the electric field. Here is a vast realm for theory and experiment.  
 
 

--- PAGE 77 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  77 Transmission  10 
 
The Telegraph Equation, Part One 
 
From the previous sections , a set of dimensional relations  has been 
established as derived from four basic electrical laws,  
 
  (1) The Law of Dielectric Proportion  
 
    (a) Farad, or Coulomb per Volt  
 
       
  
 
    (b) Coulomb, or Volt –  Farad  
 
       
  
 
  (2) The Law of Magnetic Propor tion 
 
    (a) Henry, or Weber per Ampere 
 
       
  
 
    (b) Weber, or Ampere –  Henry  
 
        
  
 
  (3) The Law of Dielectric Induction  
 
    (a) Ampere, or Coulomb per Second  
 
       
  
     (b) Coulomb, or Ampere –  Second  
 
       
  

--- PAGE 78 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  78  
 
 
  (4) The Law of Magn etic Induction  
 
    (a) Volt, or Weber per Second  
 
       
  
 
    (b) Weber, or Volt –  Second  
 
       
  
 
 Recombination of these dimensional relations, or electrical laws, then 
expresses a pair of ratios, of primary dimensions in variation with respect 
to time.  
 
Hence, for the dielectric field,  
 
  (5) Farad per Second, or  Siemens.  
 
        
  
 And for the magnetic field,  
 
  (6) Henry per Second,  Or Ohm.  
 
       
  
 

--- PAGE 79 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  79  
From this pair of dimensional relations are derived a series of energy 
transfer and storage coefficients . Grouping these into a pair of categories, 
these are given as,  
 
  (I) Energy Storage and Dissipation  
 
   (a) Dielectric Energy Storage,  Susceptance , B 
    in Farad per Second  or Siemens  
 
       
  
 
   (b) Magnetic Energy Storage,  Reactance, X 
    in Henry per Second  or Ohms  
 
       
  
 And  
 
   (c) Dielectric Energy Dissipation,  Conductance, G 
    in Farads per Second or Siemens  
 
       
  
 
   (d) Magnetic Energy Dissipation,  Resistance , R 
    in Henry per Second or Ohm s 
 
       
  
 

--- PAGE 80 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  80   (II) The Energy  Consumption or Production 
 
   (a) Dielectric Energy Consumption,  Conductance, G 
    in Farad per Second  or Siemens  
 
       
  
 
   (b) Magnetic Energy Consumption,  Resistance, R 
    in Henry per Second  or Ohms  
 
       
  
 
And  
    (c) Dielectric Energy Production,  Acceptance, S 
    in Farad per Second or Siemens  
 
       
  
    (d) Magnetic Energy Production,  Receptance, H 
    in Henry per Second  or Ohms  
 
       
  
  
SPECIAL NOTE:
 These various groupings of coefficients exist in distinct, 
independent, time frames . The dissipation coefficients are the result of 
random molecular variations, that is, noise. The consumption coefficients 
are harmonic in nature, relating to the operating frequencies, likewise for 
the production coefficients. The random and the harmonic time functions 
are NOT ADDITIVE. In general, the combinations of these coefficients 
appear as versor sums. More on this later.  

--- PAGE 81 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  81  
Since the total electric induction is the product of the total dielectric 
induction and the total magnetic induction, there exi sts the products of the 
coefficients of dielectric induction and the coefficients of magnetic induction. These products give rise to a set of electrical factors. These 
factors, the product of the dielectric part, in Siemens, and of the magnetic part, in Oh m, gives rise to the dimensional relation  
 
  (7) Ohm –  Siemens , or Numeric  
 
       
  
 
Hence, this derived dimensional relation, or FACTOR, is a numeric, that is, 
dimensionless. Since both the Ohm and the Siemens are versor quantities, it 
follows that this numeric is also a versor, a dimensionless versor 
magnitude. It is not a scalar, it is a versor with a position in time.  
 
 
These factors are hereby established to be dimensionless versor 
magnitudes. Combining the dielectric and magnetic coefficients gives t he 
following factors,  
 
   (a) The Energy Storage Factor,  XB, in Ohm –  Siemens  
    or Henry – Farad per Second Squared  
 
 
 
   (b) The Energy Loss Factor,  RG, in Ohm –  Siemens  
    or Henry - Farad per Second Squared  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 82 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  82  
and finally  
 
   (c) The Energy Gain Factor,  HS, in Ohm –  Siemens  
    or Henry –  Farad per Second Squared.  
 
 
 
Hereby it is, HS  supplies the energy, XB holds the energy, RG  removes the 
energy. These three factors define the movement of electricity thru the 
dimension of time, this for a genera lized electrical configuration.  
 
It is usually that the electrical configuration, the metallic-dielectric 
geometry, exhibits only energy losses, no component of energy gain exists. 
An example is one span of a J-Carrier open wire transmission line. This lin e 
holds energy in its bound electric field of induction, but a por tion of this 
energy is lost through molecular action within the glass insulators and 
within the copperweld wires. There exists no component of energy gain in 
this span of open wire line. Her e it is the parametric terms vanish. No 
factor HS exists and RG is pure dissipation. These simplifications allow for 
the algebraic expression in an archetypical form of the generalized electrical configuration.  
 Given the basic dimensional relations  
 
  X, the Reactance, in Henry per Second  or Ohms  
 
      
  
 
And  
 
  B, the Susceptance , in Farad per Second  or Siemens  
 
      
  

--- PAGE 83 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  83 These relations representing energy exchange between the dielectric field, 
and the magnetic field, of inductions. This energy exch ange is in an 
alternating form.  
 
It is also  
 
  R, the Resistance, in Ohm s 
 And  
 
  G, the Conductance , in Siemens  
 
These relations representing energy removal from the magnetic field, and 
the dielectric field, of inductions. This energy loss is in a continuous form. 
Hereby XB is the alternating "current"  factor, and RG  is the direct, or 
cont inuous, "current"  factor.  
 
Obviously, in the situation of an electric generator, HS could replace RG  in 
such a configuration. Here energy is produced in a manner of negligible losses, and thus RG  drops out of the equation. It is however, a system or 
configuration exhibiting both loss and gain and requires a more complex 
algebraic expression. This is dev eloped in the final section of " Symbolic 
Representation o f the Generalized E lectric Wave"  by E. P. Dollard. 
 Combining terms with like dimensional relations, that is, Ohm and Henry 
per Second, or Siemens and Farad per Second, gives rise to a total impedance, or a total admittance of the electrical configuration.  
 Hence it is,  
 
  (I) The Total Admittance, Y , in Siemens  
 
   (8)   
  
 
The versor sum of the Conductance, G, in Siemens , 
and the Susceptance , B, in Farad per Second.  

--- PAGE 84 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  84  
  (II) The Total Impedance, Z, in Ohm s 
 
   (9)   
  
 
The versor sum of the Resistance, R, in Ohms,  
and the Reactance, X, in Henry per Second.  
 
Here Y represents the dielectric field, and Z represents the magnetic field.  
The electric field is the product of the dielectric field, and the magnetic field. Q is Psi times Phi. Taking then the product of the total diel ectric 
Admittance, Y, in Siemens, and the total magnetic Impedance, Z, in Ohm, 
gives the dimensional relation  
    (10) Siemens  – Ohm  Or Numeric  
 
     
 
 
Hence ZY is a dimensionless magnitude, it having a versor position in 
time, since both Z and Y have a v ersor position in time. The product of the 
two versors is also a versor. ZY is not scalar, it is a dimensionless versor 
magnitude. It represents a wave propagation in the dimension of time, a 
TIME WAVE.  
  
The "Telegraph Equation', Finale’  
 
It has been give n that the product ZY, in Siemens –  Ohm, is a 
dimensionless magnitude,  having a versor position in time. It is the 
product of a pair of versor sums  
 
       
 
 
       
  

--- PAGE 85 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  85 However, it is the product of versor sums are also versor sums. Taking this 
product  
 
   
  
 
And factoring like terms, gives the following factors,  
 
   (I) The POWER FACTOR  
 
     
  
 Where a is the power factor, the percent of energy lost from the total 
movement of electrical energy in an electrical configuration.  
    (II) The INDUCTION FACTOR  
 
     
  
 Where b is the induction factor, the percent of energy stored by the total 
movement of energy in an electrical configuration.  
 Here , the res ulting sub -factors are defined:  
 For the power factor,  
 
• XB, the factor representing the cyclic exchange of energy between 
dielectric and magnetic forms.  
• RG, the factor representing the acyclic dissipation of energy from 
both dielectric and magnetic forms.  
 
And, for the induction factor,  
 
• XG, the factor representing the transfer of energy out of magnetic 
form an d into dielectric form.  
• RB, the factor representing the transfer of energy out of dielectric 
form and into magnetic form. 

--- PAGE 86 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  86  
The propagation constant, ZY, in Ohm – Siemens can hereby be expressed 
as the versor sum of the power factor, a, in percent, and the  induction 
factor, b, in percent. This results in,  
 
 
 
Ohm – Siemens, or Total Percent  
 ZY must always equal to 100 percent , but it has a variable position in time, 
this expressed as a resultant of ha  and jb. 
 The versor operators are defined as : 
 
h, the r oots of the square root of positive one 
j, the roots of the square root of negative one 
 Expanding the expression for the propagation constant, ZY, as a versor sum of the expressions for a and for b , gives : 
 
ZY = h(XB + RG) + j(XG - RB) 
 Hereby established  is the most important algebraic expression of 
dimensional relations, this defining the movement in time of electrical energy in any electrical configuration.  
 This alge braic expression is called the Heaviside Telegraph Equation.  It is 
in this expression t he electrical energy is expressed directly in its four pole 
archetype. Note that this four polar archetype underlies all Native American art forms . Is this related to America as the birthplace of electrical 
technology through Tesla, Edison, and Steinmetz.  Europe  was too 
consumed in self- edification mathematics, except for the work of GÖTHE.  
 

--- PAGE 87 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  87 This algebraic expression gives a pair of waves in motion t hrough the 
dimension of time, one moving forward in time, t he other backward in 
time.  
 
[Note: See " Theory and Calculation of Transient Electric Phenomena" , C. P. 
Steinmetz, the chapter, " Resis tance, Inductance, and Capacity".]  
 
Here (R + S) is forward in time and  (R - S) is backwards in time.  
 
Geometrically, this expression represents a pair of counter propagating logarithmic spirals. This spiral form is demonstrated in Ernst Guillemin , 
"Communication Networks" Volume One, and in " Theory and Calculation 
of A.C. Phenomena" , Appendix  – "Oscillating Currents" , by C. P. Steinmetz. 
It is im portant to remember that the se "motions in time"  are of a versor 
form, finding no equivalence in spatial representation except by analogy. There is no such thing as a surface of time, no 2D time. These are versor, 
not vector expressions.  
 
Expressing the four distinct sub -factors, the  versor combination of which 
gives the propagation constant, ZY, in Ohm – Siemens, it is,  
 
 (I) The Power Factor Pair  
• XB, the “axial” product, the longitudinal component of energy 
motion in time, forward and backward in an alternating manner.  
• RG, the “dot”  product, the scalar component of energy dissipation, 
this independent of time.  
 
 (II) The Induction Factor Pair  
• XG, the “cross” product, the transverse component energy transfer 
thru time from magnetic to dielectric. This is a clockwise versor around axis  XB. 
• RB, the “cross” product, the transverse component of energy transfer 
thru time from dielectric to magnetic. This is a counter -clockwise 
versor around axis XB.  

--- PAGE 88 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  88  
In the pedantic , mystic, and disinformation  world , there are two products, 
the dot and the  cross. H ere exists four products, axial, dot, and a conjugate 
pair of cross products. Here is why misunderstanding exists, the basis for 
the “longitudinal scalar” idiots.  
 
 
In its versor form , the Telegraph Equation is expressed symbolically as  
 
 
 
Where the magnitude, ZY, represents the electricity, and the operator, k, 
represents its versor position in time. This is given for a 360 degree scale on a power factor meter, an analog computer for the expression of k(ZY).  
(ZY is the pointer, k is the scale, t hat simple.)  
 Expressing a versor relation as  
 
 
 That is, negative one to the one half power times positive one to the one 
half power, gives negat ive one to the one fourth power  
 
. 
 Since this “fourth root” of negative one suggests a conjugate of the fou rth 
root of positive one, it is then  
 
k, the roots of the EIGHTH root of positive one, 
  
 
This as the most general versor operator for the Telegraph Equation.  
 

--- PAGE 89 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  89  
Conclusion 
 
Here we are beyond the scope of this elementary series of discussions on 
the rudim ents of electrical theory. This series of transmissions concludes 
here. Bu t it was fun, don’t you think?  
 For a more in -depth study of this subject,  see the following;  
 "Theory and Calculation of A.C.  Phenomena" , C. P. Steinmetz, the chapters, 
"Power and D ouble Frequency Quantities" and the appendix "Roots of the 
Unit" . 
 
"Symbolic Representation"  Papers by E. P . Dollard, and all references given 
in these papers.  
 "Electro -Magnetic Theory" , O. Heaviside, in par ticular the development of 
his "Telegraph Equati on" 
. 
"Physics and Mathematics in Electrical Communication" , James Owen 
Perrine . 
 
Finally, for an excellent musical portrayal of the ZY relati onship listen to G. 
F. Handel, " Alexander’s Feast, or the Power of Music" , the final choral 
movement. It is a good  ending to this series of writings.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 90 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  90 List of Symbols  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 91 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  91 Glossary  
 
All good text books have a glossary at the end. W hat follows is a list of all 
the terms you would want in a glossary of this book, along with a space for YOU to write in  their definitions. Consider this exercise your. final exam in 
the auth or's course on Electricity, 101, Definitions of Terms and Conditions.  
 Admittance:  
 Aether:  
 
Ampere:  
 Capacitance:  
 Conduction current:  
 
Conductor:  
 Coordinates:  
 
Coulomb:  
 Counter -space:  
 Dielectricity:  
 
Dimensions:  
 
Displacement current:  
 Electricity:  
 Electro -Motive Force:  
 

--- PAGE 92 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  92 Energy:  
 
Farad:  
 Frequency:  
 
Hysteresis:  
 Henry:  
 Impedance:  
 
Inductance:  
 
Induction Factor:  
 
Insulator:  
 Joule:  
 Magnetism:  
 
Magneto -Motive Force:  
 
Neper -Radians per Second:  
 
Ohm: 
 
PHI:  
 Planck:  
 
Power:  
  

--- PAGE 93 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  93 Power Factor:  
 
PSI: 
 Reactance:  
 
Siemens:  
 Space:  
 Susceptance:  
 
Time:  
 
Versor Operator: 
 
Volt:  
 Weber:  
  
 
 
 
 
There is a little extra room left here in case you find a few more terms you 
would like to define for yourself.  
 
When you fully understand the definition of these terms, and their spatial 
and temporal relation to each other, you will have learned the material and graduated to the level of being able to speak intelligently and accurately 
about electrical engineering subjects.   Congratulations.  
 

--- PAGE 94 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  94 
 
FOUR QUADRANT 
REPRESENTATION  
OF ELECTRICITY  
http://fourquadranttheory.com  

--- PAGE 95 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  95 
 
 
 
WIRELESS GIANT  
OF THE  
PACIFIC  
http://wirelessgiantofthepac ific.com  

--- PAGE 96 ---

emediapress.com                                      EricPDollard.com  96 A & P ELECTRONIC MEDIA  
Use the link below to purchase any non-Eric 
Dollard books or videos from A & P Electronic 
Media and 60% will go to Eric Dollard and EPD 
Laboratories, Inc.  
If you purchase any of Eric's books or videos 
from that website, 70%  will go  to Eric Dollard 
and EPD Laboratories, Inc.  
http://emediapress.com/downloads.php?offer=epdollard   
 
 
 
JOIN THE GROWING 
NUMBER OF SUPPORTERS 
FOR THE LEGENDARY WORK OF  
ERIC P. DOLLARD AT  
ERIC'S OFFICIAL HOMEPAGE  
 
IT'S FREE TO JOIN!  
http://EricPDollard.com  
 