# EXTRACTED TEXT FROM: 01_fourquadbook.pdf
# Extraction Date: 2025-06-02 13:40:40
# Total Pages: 327
# Total Characters: 247,051

================================================================================



--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 2  
  
Four Quadrant 
Representation  
of Electricity  
 
 
by 
 
Eric P. Dollard  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Published by  
A&P Electronic Media 
Liberty Lake, Washington  

--- PAGE 3 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 3  
 Cover Layout:    Aaron Murakami  
      A&P Electronic Media  
      Liberty Lake, Washington 
   Interior Images  by: Eric Dollard & Other Sources  
      Internet sources, used with attribution. 
    Transcribed from the author's notebooks by Jeffery Moe  
http://myplenum.com  
Final edit and layout by Peter Lindemann  
     
Copyright  2013  A & P Electronic Media 
 All Rights Reserved, Worldwide .  No part of this publication may  be reproduced, stored in an 
electronic retrieval system, or transmitted in any form, or by any means, without the prior, written permission  of the copyright holders or the publisher.  Unauthorized copying of this 
digital file is prohibited by International Law.  
   Digital Edition Published by: A&P Electronic Media  
        PO Box 713 
        Liberty Lake, WA 99019  
        
http://www.emediapress.com/  
    
First Edition:  
First Printing: Novem ber 2013 
Digital Format: PDF File  
50,000 authorized Downloads  
   

--- PAGE 4 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 4  
Book Version  
 
Original Versio n 1.0  -  Release Date November 7 , 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 5  
Table of Contents  
 
Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . page  10  
 (1.1) Objectives                  page      10 
 (1.2) Subject Division                page      11 
 (1.3) Misnomers                  page      12 
 (1.4) Origin of Subject                page      13 
 (1.5) Initiation                  page      14 
 
Section One    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . page  15 
 Metaphysical Aspects of Quadrapolar Versor Algebra  
 
 Part I   Pythagoras of Samos   .  .  .  .  . page   16 
    [1] Pythagoras               page     17 
     (1.1) Introduction             page     17 
     (1.2) Pythagorean Theorem          page     17 
     (1.3)  Island of Samos            page     18 
     (1.4) Origin of Mathematics          page     29 
     (1.5) The Pythagoreans            page     31 
    [2] Ancient Concepts             page     33 
     (2.1) Chaldean Number System         page     34 
     (2.2) Ge ometric Manifestation          page     36 
 
 Part II Van Tassel of Giant Rock  .  .  .  .  . page   42 
    [1] Van Tassel and His Integratron         page     43 
     (1.1) Four Quadrant Theory          page     43 
     (1.2) The Integratron            page     46 
     (1.3) Integratron Operation           page     47 
     (1.4) Epilog               page     61 
 
Section Two  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . page  63 
 Mathematical Aspects of Quadrapolar Versor Algebra  
 
 Part I   The Knowledge of Electrical Phenomena   .  . page    64 
    [1] Alternating Current Machines          page      64 
     (1.1) Rotating A. C. Apparatus          page      65 
     (1.2) Arithmetic Expression          page      65 

--- PAGE 6 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 6      (1.3) Algebraic Expression           page      65 
     (1.4) Higher Order E xpression          page      66 
    [2] The Long Line Problem           page      68 
     (2.1) Electric Transmission           page      68 
     (2.2) Electric Wave Theory           page      69 
    [3] Space Algebra and Electricity          page      71 
     (3.1) Cartesian and Quaternion Systems       page      72 
     (3.2) Michael Faraday            page      76 
     (3.3) James Clerk Maxwell           page      80 
     (3.4) Oliver Heaviside            page      85 
     (3.5) Quaternions and Maxwell         page      93 
     (3.6) Lost in  Space             page      95 
     (3.7) Engineering Reality           page      97 
 
 Part II Symbolic Representation of Cyclic Phenomena  . page 105 
    [1] Primordial Symbolic Representation        page   106 
     (1.1) Nature               page   107 
     (1.2) Quadrapolar Geometry          page   108 
     (1.3) The Lunar Cycle            page   109 
    [2] Lunar Versors              page   110 
     (2.1) The Four Lunar Phases          page   110 
     (2.2) Exponents of the Phases          page   111 
    [3] Quadrapolar Relations            page   118 
     (3.1) Quadrapolar Arithmetic          page   118 
     (3.2) Real  and Imaginary Line s        page   119 
 
 Part III The Versor Operator j   .  .  .  .  . page  123 
    [1] Rotational Oper ation            page   124 
     (1.1) The Unit Rotation            page   125 
     (1.2) Bipolar Operations           page   128 
    [2] Real and Imaginary Operators          page   129 
     (2.1) Arithmetic Operations          page   129 
     (2.2) Alternatin g Current Analog         page   131 
     (2.3) Four Versor Operators          page   132 
     (2.4) The Rotational Operator          page   137 
     (2.5) Versor Operations            page   137 
     (2.6) The Bipolar Operator           page   142 
     (2.7) Th e Alternating Operator          page   143 
     (2.8) Real and Reactive Power          page   144 
    [3] The Quadrapolar Versor Operator        page   146 

--- PAGE 7 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 7      (3.1) Bipolar Operation            page   146 
     (3.2) Fourth Order Expression          page   146 
    [4] Duo -Binary Representation          page   150 
     (4.1) Bipolar Real and Bipolar Imaginary       page   150 
     (4.2) The Exponential Series          page   150 
     (4.3) Roots of a Unit             page   151 
     (4.4) Lunar Representation           page   151 
 
 Part IV Versor Relations Between Sun, Moon, and Earth  . page 152 
    [1] Versor Attributes of Light and Dark        page   153 
     (1.1) Quadrapolar Aspects           page   153 
     (1.2) Positions of the Sun and Moon        page   154 
     (1.3) Co -Axial Systems            page   156 
     (1.4) Quadrature Relations           page   156 
     (1.5) Ratios of Light and Dark          page   159 
    [2] Solar -Lunar Co -Axial Versors          page   160 
     (2.1) The Pair of Cycles            page   160 
     (2.2) Solar -Lunar Cycles           page   161 
     (2.3) Counter Rotational Cycles         page   163 
     (2.4) Alternating Current Analog         page   164 
 
 Part V  The Lunar Phases             page 165 
    [1] Light and Dark on the Lunar Face         page   166 
     (1.1) Proportion of Light and Dark       page   166 
     (1.2) Positions of the Sun, Moon, and Earth      page   167 
    [2] Electric Analogs              page   170 
     (2.1) Lunar and Electric Phases         page   173 
     (2.2) Proportio n of Energy           page   173 
     (2.3) Cycle of Light and Dark          page   173 
    [3] Co -Axial Versor Form            page   175 
     (3.1) Energy Relations            page   175 
 
 Part VI Ratios, Projections, and the Sine  and Cosine  
    Functions                page 177 
    [1] Projections of the Cycle            page   178 
     (1.1) Image of Light and Dark          page   178 
     (1.2) Lunar shadow             page   179 
     (1.3) Sine and Cosine            page   181 
     (1.4) Shadows              page   184 
     (1.5) Co -Operation of the Sine and Cosine Functions   page   184 

--- PAGE 8 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 8  
Section Three   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . page 186 
 Practical Aspects of Quadrapolar Versor Algebra  
 
 Part I   The Method of Descartes  .  .  .  .  . page  187 
    [1] The Cartesian C o-ordinate System        page    188 
     (1.1) Sine and Cosine            page    188 
     (1.2) Symmetrical Co -ordinate Systems       page    192 
     (1.3) Latitude and Longitude          page    196 
     (1.4) Co -ordinate Derived Positions        page    199 
     (1.5) Pythagorean Ratios           page    200 
    [2] Ratios Derived from the Unit Radius        page    203 
     (2.1) Positions in Terms of Co -ordinates       page    203 
     (2.2) Radius of Unit Value           page    204 
     (2.3) Electrical Ana log           page    233 
     (2.4) Angular and Rectangular Representation     page    234 
 
 Part II The Method of Steinmetz  .  .  .  .  . page  235 
    [1] Application of Versor Algebra          page    236 
     (1.1) Symbolic Representation          page    236 
     (1.2) Steinmetz' Method           page    236 
     (1.3) Promethean Myth            page    238 
    [2] Steinmetz the Wizard            page    239 
     (2.1) Experiments             page    239 
     (2.2) The Lizard              page    240 
     (2.3) His Origin              page    241 
     (2.4) The Educator             page    243 
 
 Part I II The Rotary Field of Nikola Tesla   .  .  . page  245 
    [1] The four Quadrant Archetype          page    246 
     (1.1) Quadrantal Natural Laws         page    246 
     (1.2) Quadrantal Attributes and Archforms      page    247 
    [2] The Synchronous Machine           page    253 
     (2.1) The Invention             page    253 
     (2.2) Real and Imaginary Currents        page    256 
     (2.3) Rotating Transformer           page    257 
     (2.4) Synchronous Motor           page    258 
     (2.5) Space -Time Phase            page    259 
 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 9     [3] Motor Operation              page    261 
     (3.1) Basic Motor layout           page    261 
     (3.2) The Four Motor Poles           page    262 
     (3.3) Sine and Cosine Functions         page    263 
     (3.4) Rotating Magnetic Pole          page    265 
    [4] The Vision of Nikola Tesla           page    268 
     (4.1) Goethean Vision            page    268 
     (4.2) Rotating Pol e            page    270 
     (4.3) Four Phase A. C.           page    270 
     (4.4) Epilog               page    271 
 
 
Appendices    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . page 273 
  [1] In the Beginning, Versors              page     274 
  [2] Four Quadrant Energy Exchange            page     286 
  [3] Quadrapolar Resonant Circuit             page     320 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 10  
 
 
Introduction  
 
1.1  Objectives  
The objective of the following writing is to provide an introduction of 
Versor Algebra and its application to the Four Phase Cycle.  This  will be 
directed to the common understanding rather than that of  the engineer or 
mathematician.  

--- PAGE 11 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 11  
Versor algebra is well suited for the inner workings of the Alternating 
Current Cycle. The cycle is the fundamental dimension of alternating 
current, given as  Per Second. This is a dimension of change. The cycle and 
its phases are best represented by versor symbolism. This symbolic representation in quadrapolar form is the fundamental  geometric algebra 
in natural and electrical cycles of revolution.  
 What will in essence be represented here is a doorway into “Another 
Dimension” to use the words of physics. The aim is to cross the border from the “Re al” into the “Imaginary”, to cro ss over into the “Other Side”. 
The “Red Pill” to take us down the “Rabbit Hole” will be the Square Root 
of Negative One.  
 
1.2  Subject Division  
This subject will be presented in three sections:  
I)  Metaphysical  
II)  Mathematical  
II)  Practical  
 The first section will relate this subject to the purely metaphysical. Such 
concepts have become foreign  to the modern mind, to be regarded as 
delusions or works of fantasy. Moreover, the metaphysical is rejected with 
a singular fervor by modernists. However, such a form of understanding 
serves as the foundation of music, mathematics, and the creative proces s 
itself.  
 
The second section is strictly mathematical, but no attempt is made to 
develop practical formulae. The aim of the second section is to develop an 
archetypal view of the cyclic process, this given in terms of the Lunar Cycle . 
The concept of a Q uadrantal  Versor  is developed in this section.  
 The third section is directed towards a more practical understanding of the 
Quadrantal Versor form of the representation and its application to Four 
Quadrant Geometries . The specific application in the third section is the 

--- PAGE 12 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 12 symbolic a lgebra  of Carl Proteus Steinmetz, and the synchronous machine 
of Nikola Tesla. The work of these two pioneers is the progenesis of today’s 
alternating current technology.  
 1.3  Misnomers  
Three misnomers exist in any discussion or presentation of electric phenomena. First is the notion of Current Flow , second is that of an 
Alternating Current , and the third is the use of the term Imaginary . In order 
not to confuse matters, these terms will continue to be used in the 
following writin gs. This will however be done with qualification, as 
follows:  
I) Current Flow : 
The pre -historic concept of Electric Current Flow  is a persistent 
holdover from the ideas prevalent before the discoveries of 
Faraday and Maxwell. This current in reality is no mo re than a 
mathematical fiction, derived from the notions of physics . This 
misconception works great harm into the functional 
understanding of electricity.  
 
II) Alternating Current:  
The machines of Nicola Tesla are not based upon Alternating 
Current , but upon a Rotating Continuous Current. This is the 
novelty of Tesla’s discovery. Alternating Current  is but a 
shadow, or projection of the Rotating Electric Wave. A.C.  is a 
Direct Current  undergoing cyclic reversals. With an Alternating 
Current  rotation is not pos sible, a situation facing motor 
builders prior to the discoveries of Nikola Tesla.  
 
III) Imaginary : 
The term Imaginary  is a holdover from the view of mathematics 
that the Square R oot of Negative One is an algebraic impossibility. 
However, Imaginary Currents  can act with as much force as Real 
Currents , but the laws of behavior can be very much different.  
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 13 1.4  Origin of Subject  
The origin of the Versor System  of representation as presented in the 
following writings begins with Dr. Alexander MacFarlane, Univers ity of 
Texas in Austin. His two groundbreaking papers on the subject of Versor 
Algebra are: 
 
I) The Imaginary of Algebra  
II) The Principles of the Algebra of Physics  
 Three subseque nt papers were written by me , as an extension of 
MacFarlane’s writings:  
 
I)  Symbolic Representation Of The Alternating Electric Wave  
II)  Symbolic Representation Of The G eneralized Electric Wave In The 
Time Domain  
III) Symbolic Representation Of Induction In Space  
 These three papers are an adaption of MacFarlane’s view through the 
methods of Stei nmetz and Kennelly. Carl Steinmetz developed his A.C. 
symbolic geometry for General Electric, and Arthur Kennelly developed 
his D.C. symbolic geometry for Edison Electric. Space algebra  found no  
further development after the initial work of Dr. MacFarlane.  Induction in 
Space  is a preliminary attempt to overcome the crippling limitation of 
Maxwell’s Quaternions and Heavi side’s vector calculus, both useless in 
transformer analysis.   
1.5  Initiation  
The writings that now follow are an attempt towards a reduct ion of the 
subject to a more common level of understanding. As a mathematical 
subject , it is by its very nature an abstract one, it lives in unseen dimensions 
of the unknowable, as does electricity. Music, mathematics and electricity 
exist in this type of co-referencing triad.  
 
This abstract character will be difficult for the layman to grasp, it may be 
impossible for some. However, the subject is here presented in a 

--- PAGE 14 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 14 methodical and repetitive form, this given as new names for known 
elementary ideas. For th ose who can hold on, the image in the mind of 
Nikola Tesla, which revealed a rotating magnetic field,  will give rise to 
itself again in the mind of the reader. The reader m ust continue on in the 
“Spirit of a bold sense of curiosity for the adventure a head”  
  

--- PAGE 15 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 15  
Section One  
 
The Metaphysical Aspects of 
Quadrapolar Versor A lgebra 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 16  
(I) Pythagoras of Samos  
 
 
 
Figure 2  

--- PAGE 17 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 17 [1]  Pythagoras  
1.1  Introduction  
 
Any endeavor of this nature must begin with Pythagoras of Samos. 
Pythagoras is the gr andfather of mathematics and music. His discovery of 
most significance to the engineer is the Pythagorean Theorem of Squares. This 
theorem plays an important role in Alternating Current Theory.  
 
 
1.2  Theorem  
 
PYTHAGOREAN THEOREM OF SQUARES 
Figure 3  

--- PAGE 18 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 18 The theorem states a relation which allows for the addition of Real & 
Imaginary quantities1, such as current or E.M.F. Shown is a Real Length, b, it 
is added to Imaginary Length, a. The sum of the Real Length  and the 
Imaginary Length, is given by the resultant,  or Complex Length, c. By 
stacking unit squares of equivalent total side length, it is found that the complex sum square is the sum of the square of a  and the square of b . The 
resulting complex length, c, is then the square root of the square, that is the 
square root of c squared. This square root, a second order relation, is the 
source of a particular complication as will be seen later on.  
 
1.3  Island of Samos  
 
 
ISLAND OF SAMOS 
Figure 4  
                                                 
1 Real here is a new word for horizontal, Imaginary a new word for vertical.  

--- PAGE 19 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 19 The island of Samos was, and still is, a small fishing village. It s location is 
obscure, today a location never heard about. In the era of Pythagoras its 
location was central to the great cultures of antiquity. Samos was the 
crossroads of the ideas of these cultures.  
 
 
LOCATION OF SAMOS 
Figure 5  
 
Pythagoras lived in a world very much different than the modernistic 
world of today . To comprehend the world of Pythagoras is at best unlikely. 
His world was a musical world, an infinite universe m anifesting in 
geometric ratios.  
 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 20 
 
Figure 6  
 

--- PAGE 21 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 21 
 
 
Figure 7  

--- PAGE 22 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 22  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 23  
 
 
 
 
Figure 9  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 24  
 
 
 
Figure 10  
  
Shown is the Geometric Pattern of the Infinite.  

--- PAGE 25 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 25  
 
 
Shown is the geometric pattern of music, and its analog to Electric Form . 
Figure 11  

--- PAGE 26 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 26  
 
Pythagorean Analog  of Heaviside Telegraph Expression  
Figure 12  

--- PAGE 27 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 27  
 
 
XB 
 
 
 
RG 
 
 
Figure 13  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 28 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 28  
 
XG 
 
  
RB 
 
 
Figure 14  
 
 
(XB + RG) + j ( RB – XG) 
(Heaviside Telegraph Expression)  
 

--- PAGE 29 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 29  
In the Pythagorean mind, everything is linked canonically in a cosmic 
series of octaves, these spanning from the infinitesimal to the infinite, no 
end in either direction. Each entity in the universe has its niche in a 
particular span of octaves;  everything is a part of everything else. Nothing 
was isol ated or separate in the reasoning of the Pythagorean.  
 
1.4  Origins of Math ematics  
 
Figure 15  

--- PAGE 30 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 30  
Pythagoras and his followers were hermetic occultists, a secret 
brotherhood. Theirs alone were the sacred secrets of ancient Aegypt. The 
Pythagoreans are considered the founding fathers of mathematics, but may 
actually have delivered to the world  the mathematics as a Promethean 
endeavor. For the most part, it can be said that the knowledge of 
mathematics begins with Pythagoras of Samos, 582 B.C.  
 As one would expect, Pythagoras was killed by political operatives and his 
followers were scattered. H ereby the Tale of Prometheus holds true.  
 

--- PAGE 31 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 31 1.5  The Pythagoreans  
 
 
Aristotle  
Figure 16  

--- PAGE 32 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 32  
Aristotle, 384 B.C., can be considered the grandfather of science. In his 
book titled Metaphysics , three hundred years  after Pythagoras, he wrote : 
 
I)  The Pythagoreans,  as they are called, devoted themselves to 
mathematics.   
II)  They were the first to advance this study, and having been brought up upon it they thought its principles were the principles 
of all things.  
III) Since the principles of numbers are by nature first, an d in numbers 
they seemed to see many resemblances to things that exist or come into being.  
IV) Since again, they say the attributes and ratios of the musical scales were expressible in numbers.  
V)  Since, then, all other things seemed in their whole nature to b e 
modeled after numbers, and numbers seemed to be the first things 
in the whole of nature, they s upposed the elements of numbers  to 
be the elements of all things and the whole heaven to b e a musical 
scale and a Number.  
 
 

--- PAGE 33 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 33  
[2]  Ancient Concepts  
 
 
 
 
 
Figur e 17 
 
 
 
  
 

--- PAGE 34 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 34  
2.1  Chaldean Number System  
 
In the era of P ythagoras the concept of numbers was much deeper  than 
that of mere numeration or  counting. Numbers were considered symbolic 
arch forms. This was the philosophy of the ancient Caldeans.   
 
 
Figure 18  
 
 

--- PAGE 35 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 35  
 
 
612-539 BC  
Figure 19  
 
  
To the C haldeans, each number contained an intrinsic arch form. This arch 
form directs the formative forces, which in turn act upon the Primordial Aether . The Aether is hereby molded into concrete reality. This is in line 
with the reasoning of the Pythagoreans and to them numbers were 
considered Divine Ratios .  
 

--- PAGE 36 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 36 2.2  Geometric Manifestation  
 
 
 
 
Figure 20  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 37 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 37  
 
 
 
 
Figure 21  
  
 
 
  

--- PAGE 38 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 38  
 
 
 
 
Figure 22  
 
The numerical arch form for electricity is the number Four . Electricity 
establishes itself in quadrapolar relationships, it manifests in Four Phases 
and other quadrature configurations.  This can be seen in its concrete arch 
forms as motors, transformers, transmission lines and etc.  
  
 

--- PAGE 39 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 39  
 
 
 
 
Figure 23  
 
Any variety of quadra polar arch forms are possible, some more “ Electrical” 
than others. Here we are concerned specifically with alternating current, or properly with the alternating electric wave, of which so called A.C. is a 
projection. These waves exist in cycles of revoluti on, this progressing 
through the Four Phases of the cycle.  It is a rotational phenomenon in 
cycles per unit time, such as the common 60 cycles per second.   
 
 
  
 

--- PAGE 40 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 40  
 
 
Figure 24  
 
 
The primitive arch forms shown in the figure are various cultural 
expressions of the rotational Four Phase Cycle. The offsets at the ends of 
the Four pole s give the sense, or direction, of the cyclic rotation; that is, if it 
is clockwis e, or counter-clockwise.  

--- PAGE 41 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 41  
 
Figure 25  
 
The primitive arch form most suited for A.C. theory is sho wn in this figure. 
This consists of a pair of Four pole  forms, each rotating in an opposite 
direction. The light is rotating in one direction;  the d ark is rotating in the 
other direction . This light -dark relationship is in direct analogy with the 
magnetic -dielectric relationship in the Alternating Electric Wave. Each time 
the poles of the counter -rotating forms coincide or overlap, a specific aspect 
of the cycle manifests , this occurring four times per cycle, giving the four 
cyclic aspects:  
 
I)  Energy Production 
II)  Energy Return and  Storage  
III) Energy Consumption 
IV) Energy Storage and  Return  

--- PAGE 42 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 42 (II) Van Tassel  of Giant Rock  
 
 
 
 
GEORGE VAN TASSEL 1910 -1978   
Figure 26  
 

--- PAGE 43 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 43 [1]  Van  Tassel  and his Integratron  
 
1.1  Four Quadrant Theory  
The ancient symbolic arch forms were adap ted into the Four Quadrant 
Theory of George Van  Tassel , the designer of the Integratron. Van Tassel  
saw the Earth as an enormous electric Generator and sought to duplicate it s 
actions with his Integratron.  
 
Figure 27  

--- PAGE 44 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 44 This diagram explains his Four Quadran t Theory as it is manifested in the 
actions of the Earth’s rotation.  
Figure 28  
 
Here shown is the Earth-Sun relation, this in a Four Quadrant expression.  
 

--- PAGE 45 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 45 
 
Figure 29  
 
Shown is the lunar cycle. The Lunar cycle in its Four Quadrant arch type. 
This will be extensi vely treated in later chapters.  
 

--- PAGE 46 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 46 The Four Quadrant Theory  of Van  Tassel  portrays an Aether- Dynamical 
System, this involving the Earth, Sun, and Moon. The quadrapolar dynamic 
brings into being the seasons, tides, and life itself on Earth. This co nception 
of George Van  Tassel  bears a remarkable resemblance to that Four 
Quadrant understanding of the Aboriginal American. Van  Tassel ’s theory 
and the figures shown are given in his book When Stars Look Down . 
  
1.2  The Integratron  
 
 
 
Figure 30  
 
 
  

--- PAGE 47 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 47 The Four Qua drant Theory of George Van Tassel  describes his Integratron. 
It was a large magneto -dielectric apparatus, which claimed to have the 
largest rotary electro -static  generator in existence. This machine created a 
potential of hundreds of thousands of volts.  
 
The Integratron was a domed structure 55 feet in diameter and 30 feet in height. It had the appearance of an alien space craft. In fact, Van Tassel  
claimed the instructions for the Integratron were provided by the extra -
terrestrials. Accordin gly the ideas of George Van Tassel are not taken 
seriously. Here the Integratron serves as an introductory example of a Four Quadrant Electro -Dynamic apparatus, which of whatever origin or 
purpose, must never the less possess a frequency and an impedance as do 
all forms of electric systems.  
 
1.3  Integratron Operation 
 
 
INTEGRATRON – LOWER LEVEL  
Figure 31  

--- PAGE 48 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 48  
 
 
INTEGRATRON – UPPER LEVEL  
Figure 32  
 
The Integratron was composed of two levels, a lower level and an upper level. The lower level was a cylindrical form , this with a central hollow 
core, or column. The upper level was a void space enclosed by a hemispherical wooden dome. The inner surface of the dome was covered 
in thin aluminum sheeting. The outside of the dome was painted with a 
special dielectric paint . The wooden dome enclosed the metallic foil as a 
dielectric coating. This hemispherical structure served as a terminal 
condenser, similar to that found in designs of Nikola Tesla. The admittance 
of this terminal coupled the Integratron into the Earth-Iono sphere 
condenser. Because of the dielectric stresses involved, the Integratron building was of non -metallic construction, no nails or screws.  
 
 

--- PAGE 49 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 49  
 
 
 
INTEGRATRON MODEL – BOTH LEVELS  
Figure 33  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 50 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 50  
 
 
 
INTEGRATRON – CEILING TRANSFORMER WINDINGS & CENTRAL COLUMN  
Figure 34  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

--- PAGE 51 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 51  
 
 
INTEGRATRON – TRANSFORMER WINDING DIAGRAM  
Figure 35  
 
On the ceiling of the lower level was wound a large transformer. This 
unique transformer consisted of a pair of flat spiral coils, in the manner of Nikola Tesla. Each coil was wound with 5000 feet of wire, divided into 90 
turns. The two coils were wound in opposite directions, one clock -wise, the 
other counter -clock -wise. One coil was wound with insulated 14 gauge 
iron wire, the other wound with insulated10 gauge copper  wire. Each coil 
had an inside terminal at the central column, and an outer terminal that ran 
to the outer periphery of the hemispherical dome. The terminals of the iron 
coil were situated opposite to the terminals of the copper coil. The axis 
formed by th e iron vs. copper terminal arrangement was in a particular 
alignment with the poles of the Earth, a 22.5 degree space phase displacement. This Pi over Eight angle was important in the operation of the Integratron, this as a  certain “Angle of Hysteresis”.  

--- PAGE 52 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 52 On the same plane as the transformer, and around the outside of the dome, 
was the electro -static rotor.  
 
 
 
INTEGRATRON – ELECTROSTATIC GENERATOR  
Figure 36  

--- PAGE 53 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 53  
 
 
 
INTEGRATRON – ELECTROSTATIC TERMINAL PLACEMEN T 
Figure 37  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 54 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 54  
 
 
 
INTEGRATRON – ELECTRO STATIC TERMINAL  
Figure 38  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

--- PAGE 55 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 55  
 
INTEGRA TRON – ELECTROSTATIC TERMINAL PLACEMENTS  
Figure 39  
 
 
INTEGRA TRON – QUADRAPOLAR LAYOUT  
Figure 40  

--- PAGE 56 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 56  
 
INTEGRA TRON BASED ON BASIC DIROD GENERATOR  
Figure 41  
 
This was an electro -static generator commonly known as a Di-Rod 
machine. It is in use in many designs, serving as a motor or generator and 
has the advantage of not needing two counter -rotating rotors; this greatly 
simplifying large scale units such as the Integratron.   
The rotor was to be driven by compressed  air supplied through dielectric 
piping from a 100 horsepower air compressor. The compressor was in a 
shack distant from the electric field of the Integratron.  

--- PAGE 57 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 57  
This rotating generator had Four pole s, two coincided  with the transformer 
terminals;  the othe r two coincided with the terminals on the hemispherical 
condenser. The transformer pair of terminals exists in space quadrature 
with the condenser pair of terminals, all in a Pi over  Eight angular relation 
to the poles of the Earth. Pi over Eight, or 22.5 degrees is the 16th order 
division of the circle.   
A four pole system of triggered spark gaps commutated the rotor, the 
hemispherical condenser, and the transformer. The spark gaps were 
triggered by air through dielectric pipes from a remote time function  
generator.  
 
 
INTEGRA TRON – TRANSFORMER DETAIL  
CENTRAL COLUMN CONDENSER (RED)  
Figure 42  

--- PAGE 58 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 58  
 
 
 
INTEGRA TRON – TRANSFORMER & CENTRAL COLUMN CONDENSER (YELLOW)  
Figure 43  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

--- PAGE 59 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 59  
 
 
INTEGRA TRON – CONDENSER NETWORK ON COLUMN (RED)  
Figure 44  
 
The iron and co pper inner terminals of the transformer each terminated 
into a zigzag condenser structure which was configured on the outside of 
the central column. This column is hollow, enclosing a void space. This 
void is accessible from a hatch on the upper floor. The iron-copper zigzag 
condenser enclosed this void space, one on each side as pair of condenser plates. The void space between the plates hereby became the seat of the 
dielectric activity.  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 60 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 60  
 
 
INTEGRA TRON – UPPER LEVEL DECK HATCH  
DOWN INTO CENTRAL COLUM N VOID  
Figure 45  
 
In the upper level a special network was lowered through the opening in 
the floor, down into the void. The network then operated within the iron-
copper condenser dielectric flux. This network is the mystery never 
revealed by the extra -terrestrials. It was said that work on the Integratron 
stopped at this point, however the immense difficul ties in driving the rotor 
may be the cause;  it is an unknown.  
 
The Integratron was to be brought into synchronism with the electro -
dynamic Earth. Its spa ce phase position, and its time phase function 
generator aligned the Integratron with the time position of the Earth. The Integratron can be seen as a  form of synchronous condenser.  
 

--- PAGE 61 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 61 The general layout of the Integratron would suggest the transfer of electric 
energy between its two basic ports, one is the energy taken from or 
delivered to the Earth -Ionosphere condenser, the other is the energy into or 
out of the field of induction enclosed in the void of the central column.  
 
1.4  Epilog  
 
 
 
INTEGRATRON – VAN TASSEL & ASSOCIATES 
Figure 46  
 

--- PAGE 62 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 62 The objective of the Integratron, by Van Tassel ’s account, was to establish 
an intense Four Quadrant Field of electric induction. This is shown in his 
book. He claimed that out of phase operation of this field would result in a 
violent discharge of similar magnitud e to a large H -Bomb. 
 The operating flux of the Integratron, as an induction generator, would exist in the lower level. This operating flux was established by the 
transformer structure. This flux would have a pro found effect on objects 
put within it.  
 
Two doors enter the Integratron lower level, these in quadrature with respect to each other. These were to facilitate human passage through one 
specific quadrant of the Four Quadrant Electric Field. Someone walking 
through this quadrant was expected to be biologically rejuvenated. The 
opposite quadrant would have the opposite effect; biological destruction.  
 It is possible that the Integratron would somehow cancel out the 
dimensions of time or of space. The cancellati on of space, or the space 
scalar  condition, would allow for moving objects from one point to another 
point without traversing the distance in between; a new type of radio. In 
common language, walking into one door of the Earth Integratron leads to 
walking out of the other door of the Integratron of a distant planet.  
 
At its least, the Integratron is an interesting extra -terrestrial fairy tale, a 
myth intended here to provoke thought into a mode of fantastic possibilities, the prelude to invention The Integr atron provides an example 
of a Four Quadrant Theory, and an electro -dynamic apparatu s constructed 
upon that theory.  
 

--- PAGE 63 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 63  
Section Two  
 
Mathematical Aspects of Quadrapolar 
Versor Algebra 
 

--- PAGE 64 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 64  
(I) The Knowledge of Electric 
Phenomena  
 
 
 
[I]  Alternating Current Ma chines  
 
 
 
 
AC/DC MOTOR GENERATOR SET  
Figure 47  
 

--- PAGE 65 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 65 1.1  Rotating A.C. Apparatus  
 
Shown in the figure is an alternating current synchronous motor driving a 
direct current generator. The A.C. machine is in the foreground. This 
motor -generator set utilizes the  rotary force developments of Nikola Tesla. 
The A.C. machine is an invention of Tesla, the D.C. machine is his 
improvement upon the designs of Thomas Edison.  
 
1.2  Arithmetic Expression  
 
To develop an engineering understanding of the inventions of Nikola 
Tesla, certain mathematical relations are required. These relations are of a 
higher order than is commonly understood. Conventional mathematics is 
rooted in a dualistic, or bipolar , form of expression. Plus and minus serve 
as the poles in common electrical configurations, but this is not so with the 
configurations of Nikola Tesla in his synchronous machine.   
Two arithmetic operations are derived from plus and minus;  these are 
addition and subtraction, respectively. In bipolar symbolic representation, two o perators are defined, positive one and negative one. In symbolic 
terminology, positive one is a real number and negative one is an 
imaginary number. Subtraction, or negative one, is considered here and 
imaginary operation by reason of subtraction existing beyond the bounds 
of common additive numeration, such as counting with the fingers (digits). 
This line of reasoning can be carried further into multi-polar symbolic 
representation, such as is required for poly-phase A.C systems. This is the principle objective of these writings.  
 
1.3  Algebraic Expression  
 
Second order algebraic expressions are also bipolar relations in that they always resolve into two solutions, or a pair of roots. Typically one solution 
is positive and the other is negative; the two pole s of the second order 
expression. For example, the square root of positive one is a second order expression since it is the “Second Root” of one. This expression then must 

--- PAGE 66 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 66 have two roots, positive one, the real root, and negative one, the imaginary 
root. I t is common place to neglect the imaginary root, leaving only the 
real, that is, just one. Everyone has been taught this way, the square root of one is just one. This so -called “Fact” creates a source of misunderstanding 
in how to properly represent the ro ots of the unit, the basis of Versor 
Algebra. In its proper representation, the square root of positive one defines the bipolar arithmetic operator, that is one to the one half power, its 
roots being positive one, addition, and negative one, subtraction. T he 
exponent one half is the exponential representation of the bipolar arithmetic operator.  
 
1.4  Higher Order Expressions  
 
 
4TH ORDER ALGEBRAIC EXPRESSION 
Figure 4 8 
 
The algebraic expressions for alternating current are fourth order. This 
creates a compl ication in expression. The rotating machines of Nikola Tesla 
have four phases or sets of poles. Direct current machines only  have two 
poles, plus and minus;  for A.C. machines this is only half the equation. 
When A.C. is represented by a second order expres sions its solutions 
become prefixed by the square root of negative one. This is considered an impossible solution by conventional mathematical reasoning. The common 
concept of the imaginary number has its origin in the square roo t of 
negative one. This is the Imaginary of Algebra
 as discussed by Dr. 
MacFarlane.  
 
To properly understand alternating current requires solutions to fourth 
order algebraic expressions. This gives four roots, or solutions, one for each 
of the Four P hases.  

--- PAGE 67 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 67  
The second order expression yields its pair of roots via what is known as 
the quadratic equation; this being a sort of calculating tool. No such 
equation exists for the fourth order expression. In fact  no definite solutions 
exist for any algebraic expression higher than the second  order. Solutions 
must be found via trickery and guesswork. Hereby, electrical theory is mired in bipolar mathematics, as are the mathematicians themselves.  
 
Engineers must find their way out of this dilemma, in the manner of 
Steinmetz.  Since mathematicia ns cannot assist, nature will provide the 
guidance.  
 
To understand the electrical developments of Nikola Tesla and other 
situations of higher order, a “New Math” is required. This will find its 
beginning in the originator of mathematics, Pythagoras, and his ancient 
arch forms will serve as a guide. The objective here is the development of 
quadrapolar mathematics for the representation of the electric 
phenomenon.   
 

--- PAGE 68 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 68 [2] The Long Line Problem  
 
 
 
TWO DOUBLE CIRCUIT 115KV, 3 -PHASE AC TRANSMISSION LINES  
Figur e 49 
 
2.1  Electric Transmission  
 Shown in the figure is a pair of double circuit, 115 kilovolt, 3 phase 
transmission lines. This is the power of one hundred locomotives; this 
power moving near the speed of light flows in each circuit.  For all the 
activity , no visible presence exists of this tremendous flow of electrical 
energy.  
 The polyphase A.C. System of Nikola Tesla allows for the transmission of 
great quantities of energy over very long distances. The polyphase system 
is used world -wide, but for all its grandeur, for all the self edification if its 
educators and administrators, very little is actually known about electrical 
transmission. A rigorous solution for the transmission lines shown in the 
figure is an insurmountable mathematical task, the work  of a lifetime. In 

--- PAGE 69 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 69 fact, no rigorous solution exists even for the simple open wire telephone 
pair on glass insulators. Only a mind like that of Oliver Heaviside could 
grasp the complexity of such a seemingly simple problem. Any 
transmission theory that exi sts can be traced back to the writings of 
Heaviside, but unfortunately he was not a good teacher of his ideas. Most of the complexity in the long line problem is introduced through the distortion caused by electronic actions within the metallic “conductors ”. 
This creates a serious imbalance between magnetic and dielectric energies.  
 2.2  Electric Wave Theory  
 What do we really know? The deficiency of knowledge is aptly stated by 
Ernst Guillimen in his book Communications Networks,
 Vol. 2 , the first 
chapter , Engineering Solutions to the Long Line Problem . He describes the 
line calculations for the telephone pair as “A huge mathematical task”. This 
is the task he undertook in the writing of his book.  
 
Guillimen explains how the equations that have become so commonplace 
are in actuality only certain terms of more complex, and less understood, 
equations. These are never mentioned, swept under the carpet so to speak. 
He goes on to explain that out of all the possible orders of electric waves, only three are ackn owledged to exist. One is the guided, or transmitted 
wave, bounded in the space enclosed by the so -called conductors; second is 
the radiated wave, escaping the conductor boundaries; third is the 
dissipated wave, which sinks into the conductor, expending its energy as 
heat. No other electric waves are reasoned to exist.   
For the electric waves that are recognized, their understanding is derived 
from the Maxwell -Heaviside Electro -magnetic Theory . This theory finds its 
origin in the writings of Michael Farada y. Faraday stated : 
 “The seat of electricity is not within the conductor, but is in the space surrounding 
it”.  
 

--- PAGE 70 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 70 In other words, electricity is not a property of matter, it is a property of the 
aether. This view is not popular in the common way of thinking  today, 
particularly in the minds of physicists, who are endeared to matter in an Einsteinian space.  
 

--- PAGE 71 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 71 [3] Space Algebra and Electricity  
 
 
 
ALGEBRA OF SPACE  
Figure 50 
 

--- PAGE 72 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 72 3.1  Cartesian and Quaternion Systems  
 
The symbolic representation of dimensions in sp ace, or space algebra, is a 
relatively recent development. It followed closely the development of the 
understanding of electricity, in fact, the two grew together, one aiding the 
other at times. But not at all times, and the stunted growth of space algebra  
retarded progress in the development of the understanding of electricity.  
 
 
 
CARTESIAN COORDINATE SYSTEM  
Figure 51  
 Space algebra, as it is understood, was not easy to arrive at. It required 
evolutionary contributions from the greatest minds in mathemati cs. The 
process finds its origins in the work of Rene Descartes, 1596 - 1650. 
Developments continue with Leonhard Euler , 1707 to 1783, and then Jean -
Robert Argand , 1768 to 1822 . Many others contributed and the effort came 
to rest with Alexander MacFarlane in 1892, and Oliver Heaviside in 1891. 

--- PAGE 73 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 73 From that point onward space algebra became retrograde, dissolving into 
the Theory of Relativity, where space became confounded in the 
dimensional ratio of velocity, and sank beneath the waves.  
 
 
Figure 52  
 
Principle in the development of space algebra is the concept of the plane vector , originating in the Argand diagram, 1806. A working space algebra 
was defined within the bounds of two independent coordinate systems, these confined to a plane. This space algebra pe rmits the representation of 
a physical quantity existing in terms of a plane vector, an entity divisible into two quadrature components. One component is parallel to what is called the Real Line, the other component parallel to what is called the 
Imaginary  Line. These terms will be defined later on. In this manner the 
physical laws of plane vectors can be written in an algebraic expression.  
 
A logical next step was to extend this representation of physical quantities into what is called "Three Dimensional Space". Here is where the seemingly 
insurmountable complications begin. Foremost is the notion of Descartes that there is but one dimension of space, and that is space itself. 
Coordinates are not actual dimensions but represent "Mathematical 
Fictions" to u se the words of Carl Steinmetz.  
 
Principle in the effort of extending the algebra of space into a tri-
dimensional relationship was Sir William Rowan Hamilton, 1805 - 1865.  
 

--- PAGE 74 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 74 
 
 
SIR WILLIAM ROWAN HAMILTON  
Figure 53  
 
Hamilton took on the task of trying to re tain the laws of the Cartesian 
plane and then extend them into the realm of three mutually orthogonal 
axes. The laws of the Hamiltonian system of representation became known 
as quaternions. It serves as a first attempt towards a more general space 
algebra.  
 
QUATERNION RULES OF MULTIPLICATION 
Figure 54  

--- PAGE 75 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 75  
 
 
 
VERSOR SYSTEM VS. QUATERNION SYSTEM  
Figure 55  
 The Cartesian plane representation conforms to the laws of algebra, the 
Hamiltonian quaternion does not. Two breakdowns occur, first, the square 
of a quanti ty is negative, but in physical  form it is positive, second is  that 
the terms of a quaternion  expression cannot be interchanged . This is to say 
that A times B is not equal to B times A. This violates a most fundamental law of algebra. No space algebra has as of yet overcome this problem, all 
systems violate what is known as the commutative principle.   
The overall complication with space algebra suggests the view of Kant; 
"Algebra is the science of time, geometry is the science of space".  Is a space 
algebra  possible?  
  
 

--- PAGE 76 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 76  
3.2  Michael Faraday  
 
A workable knowledge of electricity begins with Benjamin Franklin, 1706  
to 1790. His important contribution was to find that electricity manifests  in 
a bipolar form, it is a polar phenomena. He perceived this polarity to exist in a single "Electric Fluid", a unified electric medium. Through his 
understanding the "Leyden Jar" was transformed by him into what is 
known as an electro -static condenser.  
 
 
 
                  Benjamin Fr anklin                                Hans Christian Ørsted  
Figure 56  
 
The next important step in electrical knowledge comes with Hans Oersted, 
1777 to 1851 . Oersted's ground breaking discovery was reached quite by 
accident. In the course of a laboratory demonstration he had aligned a 
compass w ith a current carrying wire, this in such a way as to have the 
current impel the needle of the compass to fall in line with the direction of current flow. No such alignment could be detected. In closing the 
demonstration Oersted moved the compass and its needle promptly 

--- PAGE 77 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 77 aligned itself perpendicular to the flow of current in the wire. Here the 
direction of the needle is in space quadrature with the current impelling it. 
The first known quadrature aspect of electricity had presented itself to 
Oersted.  
 
 
 
Michael Faraday 1791- 1867 
Figure 57  

--- PAGE 78 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 78  
In this phase of electrical history only the electro -static and the magneto -
static  aspects of electricity were being considered. Dynamic, or Time 
Variant, aspects were still to be discovered. Numerous theories with 
incon gruous mathematics abounded and began to solidly establish 
themselves. Michael Faraday 1791 to 1867 , would significantly alter this 
scenario, with his discovery of the Law of Electro -Magnetic Induction, and 
his establishment of the concept of what he named  the "Dielectric".  
 Oliver Heaviside wrote of Faraday as "The Prince of Experimentalists", 
Nikola Tesla once called Faraday "The Columbus of Electricity". Michael Faraday provided the primordial foundation for all existing future 
understanding of electricity and its practical application. He would be the 
inspiration for future renowned British theoreticians who would establish 
the greater part of electrical knowledge that exists today. With Faraday 
began The Golde n Age of Electrical Science.  
 
Two fundamenta l understandings were arrived at with Faraday's work. 
One was his discovery in 1837 that the charge capacity of an electro -static 
condenser increased when a dielectric material, such as glass, was placed 
within the space between the condenser metallic surf aces. The findings of 
Faraday were not received well by his contemporaries. He expanded these 
studies until it became obvious that electricity is not a property of matter, 
but rather a property of  Space. This has been, an d still is, and unpopular 
idea.  
 
Within space, electricity was found to exhibit complex and revealing 
geometries. This gave the basis for the Faradic Lines of Force, these the 
polarization of his "Contiguous Particles of the Aether". In common 
expression this is the iron  filings around the bar magnet.  
  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 79 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 79 
 
 
Figure 58  
 
The particles of iron polarize into the shape and form that the Aether corpu scles take in Faraday's theory.  
 The need for a mathematical interpretation was now required. However, 
Faraday was not a mathematician, he was an exp erimenter, as was Ben 
Franklin.  
 Faraday's second important discovery was a step out of the conventional 
static, time invariant, condition of known electrical quantities. He observed 
that when the conditions for magnetism are caused to vary with respect to  
time, actions manifest in the current carrying conductor. He called this the 
"Electro -Tonic State", and this gave rise to an "Extra Current" . This electro -
tonic condition is now known as an Electro -Motive Force, or E.M.F. for 
short. The variation of magne tism and the intensity of the E.M.F. are given 
in his Law of Electro -Magnetic Induction, later formulated by Clerk 
Maxwell. Through this process electricity and magnetism became interchangeable through the dimension of time, this leading to the electric 
generator, and the basis of all  alternating current apparatus.  

--- PAGE 80 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 80  
3.3  James Clerk Maxwell  
 
 
JAMES CLERK MAXWELL 1831 -1879 
Figure 5 9 
 

--- PAGE 81 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 81 James Clerk Maxwell began the study of Faraday's work in 1850 at age 19. 
Maxwell was quite impressed with the concept of spa tial fields of 
induction connecting physical bodies. Accordingly he sought the mathematical description that Faraday could not provide. It has been said 
that "Maxwell put the math into Faraday" . 
 
The conception of electricity in the time before Faraday was  based upon its 
static condition, no motion in time or space, it was stationary. This condition was reasoned to exist within matter as electric fluids which soak 
into it. Faraday's discovery of a time variant resultant, the E.M.F., 
introduced the dynamical  aspect of electricity. The E.M.F. was only 
actually half of the equation and Maxwell would find the other half.  
 Maxwell carried out research into the Faraday concept of the dielectric 
seeking out its various aspects. He then founded the discovery that w ould 
eventually jolt the scientific community; the ability of the dielectric material 
to concentrate an electro -static field was a function of the velocity of light 
in that dielectric. This discovery unified electricity and optics, but in a way not yet qui te understood. This connection would occupy the minds of 
scientists for a century afterwards, ending with Albert Einstein.   
Maxwell's continued research into Faraday's dielectric field resulted in 
what might not be his most profound discovery, but possibl y his most 
important. His discovery was the companion to the Faraday Law of 
Electro -Magnetic Induction.  
 
Maxwell discovered that when the condition for a dielectric field are 
altered, or caused to change with respect to time, actions in the dielectric 
material manifest. Maxwell called this action "Displacement' and it existed 
as a form of electric current. It is a response to a change in the electric strain within the dielectric, or insulating body in general. Such displacement can also exist in free space. Here now exists the companion to Faraday's Law of 
Electro -Magnetic Induction and its Electro -Motive Force.  
 

--- PAGE 82 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 82 The European theoreticians were horrified. Two most fundamental of their 
dictums had been violated upon by the British. The first violation is re lated 
to the notion of the electro -static potential. It was reasoned that a potential 
is incapable of manifestation within a conductive metallic body. However, 
Faraday's E.M.F. acted as a potential did, and this inside the metallic body. 
The second violati on relates to the notion of current flow. It was reasoned 
that a current is incapable of manifesting within an insulating dielectric 
body. However, Maxwell's displacement current acted much like a 
conduction current, this inside an non- conductive, or insul ating body. The 
European noses went high, and they rejected Maxwell's work as a mere "Paper Theory" and it was incapable of verification. The E.M.F. and 
displacement are reactions to the time rate of variation of electricity, the 
Europeans knew only of the  static condition.  
 
Maxwell's advancement at this point in his work defines the first 
primordial qua drapolar aspects of electricity:  
 
  I)  The Circulatory  Magnetism  
  II)  The Electro -Motive Force  
  III) The Strain of Dielectricity  
  IV) Displacement Cur rent  
 Maxwell presents a beautiful complimentary symmetrical electrical 
relationship and this would be continued throughout his work, endearing 
the minds of later important researchers.  
 
Maxwell's genius created a synthesis of all things magnetic and diel ectric, 
as well as their interactions, into a pair of fundamental field equations. This 
was a scientific achievement of singular grandeur. He finally identified 
light as electromagnetism through the formulation of his idea of a 
transverse electromagnetic w ave. This wave represents a complete 
quadrapolar electric configuration, the first to draw attention to itself in the 
study of electricity. The notion of the propagation of electricity through 
space without interconnection here presented itself to Maxwell.  Here exists 
one of the most important advances in the knowledge of electricity, 

--- PAGE 83 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 83 expressing a quadrapolar relation and the existence of electric waves. 
Heaviside would say, "The Heaven -Sent Maxwell" .  
 The space geometry of electromagnetism consists of thr ee mutual 
perpendiculars, this existing in the same manner as the tri -dimensional 
space of mathematics. The electromagnetic field idea of Maxwell was a natural home for the quaternion system of Hamilton. Ultimately, 
quaternions would serve to hinder the effort, forcing electricity into a form 
which it manifests only in certain configurations. Maxwell's ideas needed 
expression in a symbolic representation that did not exist. Quaternions did 
not serve electricity, electricity served quaternions.  
 
As much as it was, his elegant theory was none the less still regarded as a 
"Paper Theory".  No experimental verification had yet been established. No 
means existed in 1873 to generate the requisite frequencies, nor did any 
device that could detect these  waves exist. This situation remained for 15 
years.  
 
In 1888, one of their own in Germany broke rank with the prevailing 
thought. This was Heinrich Hertz, he demonstrated the transmission of 
electricity through empty space across the room of his laboratory. In a 
rapid succession of experiments, Hertz continued to verify the theory of 
Maxwell until it became a proven fact. Then the world loved it, Maxwell 
was a genius, Hertz was a hero. The accolades rang loud!  
 Along with Heinrich Hertz and his research into electric wa ves came those 
of Nikola Tesla. Tesla carried the Maxwell idea even farther, perfecting the 
high frequency devices required to study electric waves, this far beyond 
the ability of his contemporaries. He noted certain discrepancies in the 
Hertz Wave Theory,  not surprising since the apparatus of Hertz was 
primitive. Hertz was a physicist, Tesla was an electrical engineer and could 
create much more refined apparatus. Tesla travelled to Germany to work 
these matters out with Hertz, the untimely death of Hertz a t age 33 ended 
any further work. Tesla continued on and wireless communication was 

--- PAGE 84 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 84 soon a reality. However, Tesla was an American and the credit would go to 
others deemed more worthy.  
 Nikola Tesla, with his very refined instruments and apparatus would 
discover aspects of Maxwell's theories that the quaternions kept from view. 
This was in the realm of electro -static waves, and Maxwell's dielectric 
displacement . These waves were unlike those of electro -magnetism, no tri -
dimensional geometry existed;  propaga tion was in a single coordinate 
system, not understood by mathematics. Public demonstrations of these waves were considered beyond awesome, some ran in fear.  
 The absence of a tri-polar geometry and any known representation would 
throw Tesla back into the  wilderness of the European potentials and 
currents, but his work would not find friends in either camp, and it was 
uniquely American. Tesla never wrote on the theoretical basis of his 
discoveries, but he did refer to Maxwell as an "Electrical Poet" and held 
him in high regard. Public statements would indicate that Nikola Tesla 
derived his ideas from the German theoretician Herman Von Helmholtz, 
who wrote on the subject of longitudinal waves. T o this  day, however, the 
understanding of Nikola Tesla remains a n enigma.  
 

--- PAGE 85 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 85 3.4  Oliver Heaviside  
 
 
 
OLIVER HEAVISIDE 1850 -1925 
Figure 60  
 

--- PAGE 86 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 86  
Electro -magnetic telegraphy was invented by a jo int effort of Samuel Morse 
and Joseph Henry, in 1838. The first telegraph line went into service in 
1844, but little was yet know n about the theory of propagation, nor the 
theory of circuits. No theoretical basis existed for the electro -magnetic 
telegraph, but it worked anyway.  
 
 
 
 
      SAMUEL MORSE  1791- 1872                    Joseph Henry 1797 -1878 
Figure 61  

--- PAGE 87 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 87 
 
 
MORSE TELEGRAPH SET and FIRST LONG DISTANCE TELEGRAPH LINE  
Figure 62  
 
Samuel Morse was a painter by profession and knew little about electricity. 
None the less, he began tinkering with wire coils and voltaic piles, this 
bringing in the efforts of Henry. Morse developed th e first binary code, this 
in a digital format known as the Morse Code. Henry worked on devising 
the electro -magnets for the telegraphic sounders. Joseph Henry is known as 
the American Faraday. Not only did he independently discover the law of electro -magne tic induction, but years before Hertz, Henry demonstrated 
the propagation of electric waves through free space, and solid walls. His 

--- PAGE 88 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 88 work, as an American, was ignored abroad. The electro -magnetic telegraph 
was ahead of the understanding of electricity that existed in its time. 
Theory would have to follow the telegraph, like it or not.  
 
The tremendous success of this telegraph system led to  the consideration of 
extension through undersea cables and in 1851 one became operational 
between England and France. This opened the fantastic possibility that a 
trans -continental submarine cable could be constructed and put into use. 
This would allow for "Instant" communication between England and America.  
 
The cable between England and France exhibited puzzling problems, the 
signals arrived weak and distorted. Transmission was much slower, and 
more garbled than an equivalent distance of open wire line. No one knew 
why. In 1855 Sir William Thomson, known as Lord Kelvin, demonstrated 
in theory that trans -continental tran smission is a mathematical 
impossibility. Using the diffusion of heat theory, Kelvin arrived at a 
capacitance -resistance propagation factor, then known as the "KR Law" . 
This was to be one of the greatest mistakes in electrical theory. Fortunately, 
the noti ons of Kelvin did not discourage Cyrus Field, who did not place 
much stock in physics. He started laying cable across the Atlantic Ocean in 
1857.  The distortio n was severe, but it worked! However , Lord Kelvin was 
the physicist of highest esteem so the KR L aw remained The Law.  
 
Major advancements in telegraphy were carried out in England by Sir 
Charles Wheatstone, where he is sometimes called the "Father of 
Telegraphy".  He was also the uncle of Oliver Heaviside. Oliver Heaviside 
was b orn in London on May 13,  1850, t he date when Maxwell would begin 
his theoretical treatment of Faraday's work. Wheatstone stimulated 
Heaviside's interests in telegraphic theory and Oliver Heaviside presented 
his first paper on the subject at age 22. He began work under the employ of the Great Northern Telegraph Company where he gained much valuable 
experience. He left his position for reasons unknown in 1874 and began his 
undivided study of Maxwell's "Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism". He 
became fascinated, if not obsessed, with Maxwell's field equations. This 

--- PAGE 89 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 89 would lead to his profound advancement of space algebra and its 
application to electrical engineering. Heaviside's work carried forth 
Maxwell's theory into innumerable applications, providing an astonishing 
clarity withou t undo modification.  
 Maxwell's theory at the time of his death in 1879 was still a "Paper Theory",  
there was no experimental evidence of electromagnetic wave propagation. 
Oliver Heaviside's first paper on the subject, On Induction Between Parallel 
Wires , was published in 1881. H e demonstrated, in terms of mathematics, 
the existence of travelling electromagnetic waves. These waves consisted of 
both magnetic and dielectric induction in the complimentary-symmetrical 
form of Maxwell. Kelvin's KR Law was based upon a heat like diffusion of 
electro -static force and ignored the magnetic induction. Here would exist a 
conflict with established law. Heaviside remarks on this are numerous.  
 
To quote:   
 
"Now very few (if any) un -mathematical electricians can understan d this 
fact; many of them neither understand it nor believe it. Even many who do 
believe it simply because they are told so, and not because they can in the 
least feel positive about its truth of their knowledge. As an eminent practitioner remarked, after prolonged skepticism, "When Sir William 
Thompson (Lord Kelvin) says so, who can doubt it? What a world of worldly wisdom lay in that remark".  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 90 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 90  
The KR Law was enforced by the head of the British Telephone and 
Telegraph System, William Preece.  
 
 
 
WILLIAM HENRY PREECE 1834 -1913 
Figure 63  
 

--- PAGE 91 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 91  
In 1885 Heaviside began regular publication of his papers on 
electromagnetic propagation in telegraph lines, emphasizing the 
importance of the magnetic component. This gave rise to the Telegraph 
Equation" the f oundation of transmission theory. Oliver Heaviside made a 
most remarkable theoretical discovery, when the rate of magnetic dissipation was made equal to the rate of dielectric dissipation, the distortion on the line vanished. Moreover, the long line equation reduced 
to a very simple algebraic expression. This so angered William Preece that 
Heaviside was banned from any further publishing on the subject. The KR 
Law had become Admiralty  Law! In America the work of Heaviside laid 
the basis for long distance te lephony and led to the great success of the 
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, and its creation of the "Bell System"  
 
 
The Bell System, 1885 -1986 
Figure 64  

--- PAGE 92 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 92  
With his "Telegraph Equation"  Oliver Heaviside made a most important 
advance in the quadra polar understanding of electricity. Needless to say, it 
mirrors the quadrapolar form shown earlier in Maxwell. The 
electromagnetic wave in wire line propagation can be represented in terms 
of four constants exhibited by the wire line structure. These are:  
  I)  Resistance, representing the rate of magnetic decay  
 II)  Inductance, representing the ability to contain magnetism  
 III) Conductance, representing the rate of dielectric decay  
 IV) Capacitance, representing the ability to contain dielectricity  
 In general, the resistance, R, is a property of the so -called conductors, the 
conductance, G, is a property of the so -called insulators. The magnetic 
inductance and the dielectric capacitance, L, and, C, respectively are both a 
property of the space bounded by the conductors, and containing the 
insulators. LC then represents the propagation, or velocity, of the wave, RG 
represents the consumption of the wave in the course of its propagation, its 
dissipation.  
 Heaviside would coin many new words in the course of  his writings, such 
as Inductance, or Reactance, for example. These were extensions of the 
commonly used word, Resistance. His terminology horrified the literary 
critics, of which James Swineburne wrote:   
 "A prolific inventor of new terms", or  "A murderou s hatred of the Queen's 
English, with words like Leakance, Reactance, and etc".  
 
Nevertheless, these words of Heaviside have today become the language of 
electrical engineering. In fact, the work of Oliver Heaviside is the basis for 
almost the entirety of  electrical engineering. Steinmetz, Kennelly, and 
others would continue from Heaviside's work. It is very striking how 
something which was so vigorously opposed, is now in such common 
acceptance as to be regarded as indispensible.  

--- PAGE 93 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 93 3.5  Quaternions and Maxwell  
 
 
 
MAXWELLIAN QUATERNION EXPRESSION  
Figure 65  
 
 
Maxwell was bogged down in the quaternion system of Hamilton and Tait. 
When Heaviside studied Maxwell he clearly saw the need for a more 
suitable form of mathematical expression, even Maxwell himself b egan the 
task by modification of the quaternion notation. Heaviside had decided to 
take on the task of "Removing the Baggage from Maxwell". His dislike for 
the quaternion, as well as those who professed it few, finally becoming 
hostile to them. In the jour nals of the time considerable conflict existed on 
these subjects of space algebra and Heaviside kept the fires burning hot, 
particularly with his biting parables.  One such parable opens in volu me 
three of his "Electromagnetic Theory", Chapter IX:  
 
 
 
Adagio ...Andante..Alegro Moderato  
 
 The following story is true:  
 
There was a little boy, and his father said, "Do try to be like other people. 
Don't frown". And he tried and tried, but could not. So his father beat him 
with a strap; and then he was eaten up by lions.  
 

--- PAGE 94 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 94 Reader, if young, take warning by his sad life and death. For though it may 
be an honour to be different from other people, if Carlyle's dictum about the 
80 million still be true, yet other people don't like it. So if you are different, 
you had better hide it, and pretend to be wooden headed. Until you can make 
your fortune. For most wooden headed people worship money; and, really, I 
do not see what else they can do. In particular, if you are going to write a book, remember the wooden headed. So be rigorous; that will cover a 
multitude of sins. And do not frown.  
 
Heaviside completely rejected the quaternion method and began the 
development of his own vector algebra methodology exclusively. He 
transformed all prior modes of expression and representat ion, eliminating 
all confusing symbolisms. Establishing his new basis for space algebra he took over where Maxwell had left off, but kept his faith in the soundness of 
Maxwell's theory of electromagnetic waves. Heaviside set out to expound 
the Maxwellian u nderstanding in very clear and systematic terms. The 
result was the now well known Heaviside Equations shown in the figure.  
 
 
 
HEAVISIDE VECTOR EXPRESSION  
Figure 66  
 

--- PAGE 95 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 95 The historical scribes took a dim view of Heaviside, so today this set of 
equations has been given the name "Maxwell's Equations", but where are 
the quaternions? And the parrots chatter on.  
 Ultimately Heaviside had backed himself into the same corner as Maxwell, 
his expressions still bore the arch type of transverse electromagnetism in a tri-dimensional space. The theoreticians were married to "Three 
Dimensional Space", a mathematical fiction, but written in stone. Heaviside could not help but denounce anything outside transverse 
electromagnetism.  
 
So what lay still uncovered in the writings  of James Clerk Maxwell, buried 
in quaternions? Are his ideas the totality of all things? His work is primordial, born of Leyden jars, and milligram balances, this compounded 
with no means of expression. Is it wise to place too much stock in Maxwell? 
Heavi side states this in the very beginning of his book, to quote:  
 
"It is by no means to be concluded that Maxwell spells finality. It cannot be even 
said that the Hertzian waves prove Maxwell's Theory".  
 So what is left to be discovered?  
 3.6  Lost In Space 
 
The subject of space algebra was one of controversy in the days of Oliver 
Heaviside. The conflicts sometimes became severe. The reality was that the 
math did not represent the actual physical process, it is as if the physical 
reality had become subordina te to mathematical theory. Edwin Armstrong 
best put this to words: "They substitute words for reality, and then talk about 
the words". When space algebra degenerated into Einstein -Minkowsky 
Relativity, Nikola Tesla made a strong statement; "Today's scienti sts have 
substituted mathematics for experiments and they wander off through equation after equation and eventually build a structure which has no relation to reality. "  
 

--- PAGE 96 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 96 Oliver Heaviside was a strong opponent of the physical becoming 
subservient to the ma thematical, and worked this way in his space algebra. 
As for the quaternions, he states: "Quaternion was, I think, defined by an 
American school girl to be an ancient religious ceremony". The resulting 
situation with regard to space algebra is that it is d erived from two 
principle formats, the quaternion system of Hamilton and Tait, and the 
vector system of Gibbs and Heaviside. And off to the side is the 
"Ausdehnungslehre"  of Grassman.  
 
 
 
ALEXANDER MACFARLANE 1851 -1913 
Figure 67  
 

--- PAGE 97 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 97 A synthesis was derived fr om the methods of all these mathematical 
formats by Alexander MacFarlane. This is presented in his paper The 
Principles of the Algebra of Physics . MacFarlane begins with a discussion 
on the relative merits of each format, emphasizing the distinction between 
versor, vector, and tensor. Further on is his presentation of a more unified 
format with a particular emphasis on the versor form of expression. His paper leads to some rather remarkable results and provides the ground 
work for a new, more general, form of space algebra. This is where to 
begin. To quote Heaviside: "There is a time for all things; for shouting, for 
gentle speaking, for silence, for the washing of pet and the writing of books. Let now the pots go black, and set to work. It is hard to make a  beginning, but it must 
be done".  
 
3.7  Engineering Reality 
 
 
 
500kv Electric Arc -  Vacuum Switch Failure  
Figure 68  

--- PAGE 98 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 98  
From the position of the electrical scientist, if such an entity even exists in 
our day, the question is, what do we have to work with? T o start, the "Ore" 
from which to build is almost all Maxwellian, and since his electromagnetic theory aided and abetted the Special Theory of Relativity, is he a good 
place to start? Then there is the Helmholtz -Tesla approach, but little 
information exists  here to work with. To compound the situation the space 
algebra that exists is useless in representing anything but transverse waves. Finally, the situation is rendered hopeless by the social operative that the 
right thing to do when something is not under stood is to suppress it, or 
make certain to destroy it if necessary. Then he ard is Amen!  
 The objective here is to derive a quadrapolar representation electricity, this 
for any dimension, time or space, and etc. Everything seems against this 
effort as far as established theory provides. Heaviside's approach bitingly 
emphasizes again and again - go back to the physical, the real world, and 
derive from this the mathematical. He considered mathematics an 
experimental science. Just as one would configure an ide a into an 
assemblage of resistors, condensers, and transistors, he would configure 
his ideas into an assemblage of operators, functions, and variables. 
Academic mathematicians despised Heaviside for this, but h is "Magic 
Equations" could work  wonders.  
  
 
 

--- PAGE 99 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 99  
 
 
Transformers  
Figure 69  
 
 
A fundamental electrical engineering situation is that of travelling waves in 
transformer windings. This physical structure is incapable of a rigorous expression in any form of existing mathematics. The Heaviside- Maxwell 
Equa tions are of no use in this application. Approximation and 
misrepresentations must be resorted to. However, the geometry of the 
transformer windings is self evident, and an intrinsic quadrapolar form 
presents itself, and the elegant symmetry found by Maxwe ll and Heaviside 
is buried within the winding structure in a more sophisticated form.  
 

--- PAGE 100 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 100  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 70  
 
 

--- PAGE 101 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 101  
 
 
Figure 71  
 

--- PAGE 102 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 102  
 
 
TESLA TRANSFORMER PROPAGATION  
Figure 72  
 

--- PAGE 103 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 103  
 
 
Figure 73  
 Shown in the figure is the basic single layer solenoidal winding, such as  
used in the "Tesla Transformer". Two paths for propagation exist rather than the customary one path for propagation as in the long line problem. One path is the transverse electro -magnetic, this moving circumfer entially 
around the coil. The other path is the longitudinal magneto -dielectric, this 
moving axially along the coil. These to component waves exist in a space 
quadrature relation, like Oersted's compass needle. A quadrature relation 
implies a four quadrant expression, or quadrapolar format ; this is the start.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 104 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 104 
 
COMPLEX SPACE ANALOG  
Figure 74  
 
The figure shown expands the windings into the form of a synthetic 
network. Here the complexity of the problem presents itself, and it is incapable of treatment by conventional transmission theory. It appears  to 
be a gargantuan matrix problem. It is beyond the scope of these writings and will be continued in the appendix.  
 

--- PAGE 105 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 105  
(II) Symbolic Representation of Cyclic 
Phenomena  
 

--- PAGE 106 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 106 [1] Primordial Symbolic Representation  
 
 
ABORIGINAL AMERICAN  
Figure 75  
 

--- PAGE 107 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 107 1.1  Natural  Form  
 
The science of electricity has its roots in the knowledge of natural forces, 
those of nature. Originally this was known as “Natural Philosophy”. The 
science of electricity is derived of natural science and philosophy. This 
philosophy is for the most part forgotten. To understand nature is to 
partake in it and thereby engage in the natural process. An electrical 
appar atus constitutes an arch form. I t is that particular shape or geometric 
configuration that makes things happen. This arch  form engages the 
formative forces, here the magnetic and dielectric, which act upon the 
primordial aether. The resultant is electric activity. This process exists 
throughout all nature, and by Pythagorean reasoning, all natural forces 
must exhibit a common unifying rela tionship. Hereby, one set of forces 
which are unknown can be derived by relation to another set of known forces. The unknown can be understood through analogy and similitude, 
by finding the underlying principle common to each.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 108 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 108 1.2  Quadrapolar Geometry  
 
The fundamental arch type of electricity is quadrapolar. It has four poles, 
phases, or directions. The four phases define four quadrants, each quadrant 
defines a unique aspect of electricity, giving four aspects total.  
 
Aboriginal Americ ans express quadrapolar form and patterning 
throughout their culture. They are in their own way experts on the subject 
of four quadrant relationships.  Since we are lost in the wilderness of 
bipolar thinking, the Aborigine may well serve as our guide into the 
symbols of electricity.  
 
 
QUADRAPOLAR ARCHETYPE OF ELECTRICITY  
Figure 76  
 

--- PAGE 109 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 109  
1.3  The Lunar Cycle 
 
 
 
LUNAR PHASES  
Figure 77  
 

--- PAGE 110 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 110 The Aboriginal American derives his symbols and understanding from his 
direct participatory contact with nature. For him the f orces are awesome, 
but also relentless; they are undeniable. It is the law of nature that directs the mind of the so -called Indian. This is expressed in his production of his 
arch forms.   As with electricity, the natura l forces are in constant motion;  this motion 
often exists in the form of cycles. These cyclic motions are made visible 
through the observation of the four seasons, for phases of the Moon and 
etc.  These motions are of a four quadrant form, as defined by four distinct 
phases or sub -divisions of the cycle. These natural motions are quadrapolar 
as are the motions of electricity.  
  
[2] Lunar Versors  
 2.1  The Four Lunar Phases  
 
The Lunar cycle provides much insight into the workings of the 
quadrapolar relationshi p. Details of the Lunar cycle es capes the modernist, 
whose existence is closed off inside barricaded dwellings surrounded by 
fences and locked gates. Firearms and paranoid eyes are directed radially 
outwards. To the modernist mind, nature causes cancer. This is not the case 
for the Indian who cannot hide or escape from nature;  he must be part of it. 
For him the lunar  cycle is a sort of sacred relation;  this is a part of daily 
existence. For the Indian this is an engineering reality. This reality is quadrapolar.  
 This lunar cycle will here serve as an analog to the alternating current 
cycle. What follows here will be a detailed analysis of the lunar cycle in 
mathematical form; this deriving expressions for quadrapolar 
relationships. These will then be applied to alternating current theory.  
 
 

--- PAGE 111 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 111  
2.2  Exponents of the Lunar Phases  
 
 
 
LUNAR POSITIONS  
Figure 78  
 
 
 
  
 

--- PAGE 112 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 112 
 
 
VERSOR LUNAR POSITIONS 
Figure 79  
 
The four lunar phases represent the basic quadrapolar relation. The four 
unit poles or phases are defined as:  
 
  I)  New Moon  
  II)  Leading Qu adrature Moon  
  III) Full Moon  
  IV) Lagging Quadrature Moon  

--- PAGE 113 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 113  
These four lunar phases can be represented by a progressive series of 
numerical exponents. Each distinct phase of the moon can be identified 
with a specific exponent. This exponent can also be given as an angle in 
radians. Each exponent numerically represents a particular lunar phase, or 
what will be called a unit versor position. Here in the manner of Pythagoras, each phase is a Number
: 
 Zero – New Moon  
One – Leading Moon  
Two – Full Moon  
Three – Lagging Moon  
 
Since the exponent four completes the cycle at New Moon , it is equal to 
Zero . That is, the fourth power is the next Zeroth  power, the start of a new 
cycle. Four is equal to Zero in a quaternary number system. This number 
system consists of f our numerals as phases.  

--- PAGE 114 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 114 
 
 
Figure 80  
 
A more familiar number system is the bipolar, or binary system. It is based upon two numerals as phase s. In binary exponential form, two is equal to 
zero, since the exponent Two is z ero in the next sequence, similar to  a cycle.  

--- PAGE 115 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 115  
 
 
Figure 81  

--- PAGE 116 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 116  
 
 
Figure 82  
 

--- PAGE 117 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 117 In binary, the exponents are fixed to Zero and One, in quaternary the 
exponents are fixed to Zero, One, Two and Three. The highest exponent in 
the system is always one less than the number of phases in the exponentia l 
representation.  
 
Two laws of exponents present themselves in any exponential representation. The first law states in essence that any ratio to the Zero 
power is self annulling. The result of this operation is unity, or One; this 
without position or dire ction. It i s simply the number One.  
 The second law states that any ratio to the first power is  self identifying. 
The result of this operatio n is as if nothing has happened,  except the 
exponent vanishes, leaving only the unchanged ratio.   
For example, if a ratio, k, is raised to the Zero power, it becomes equal to 
One; the ratio k  vanishes. If the ratio k  is raised to the first power it remains 
the ratio, k, and the exponent o ne need not be shown. The Zero power can 
be taken as the refe rence phase, this gi ving phase o ne, or the start of the 
cycle.  
 
In the lunar cyc le, the z ero power gives the reference position, New Moon. 
This is the starting point of a unit cycle, phase One or New.  
 
The fir st power in the lunar cycle is o ne unit degree of the turning into the 
New cycle, this arriving at the leading quadrature moon, One unit step beyond the New Moon. All higher numerical powers identify a certain 
multiple of unit steps into the cycle. Four unit steps start the cycle again at 
the New Moon. This representati on can be given to alternating current.   
 

--- PAGE 118 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 118 [3] Quadrapolar Relations  
 
 
 
4-POLAR STRUCTURES  
Figure 83  
 
3.1  Quadrapolar Arithmetic  
 
Quadrapolar arithmetic exists beyond the bounds of common arithmetical 
laws. The basic arithmetic operations of addition a nd subtraction must be 
extended to include another pair of operations, giving the required total of 
four.  
 Addition, or plus, in symbolic representation is positive o ne; New Moon. 
Subtraction, or minus, in symbolic representation is negative one; Full 
Moon. The question is how are the Leading Moon or Lagging Moon to be 
represented by arithmetical operators. The guide shows the path is from 
Pythagoras to Steinmetz, and this we will follow.  

--- PAGE 119 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 119  
 
 
REAL LINE & IMAGINARY LINE  
Figure 84  
 
3.2  Real and Imaginary Li nes 
 
The unit positions of the New Moon and of the Full Moon establish a line. 
This line spans positive one, New, and negative one, Full. The Earth is between so thi s line is co -linear with the Sunrise -Sunset Line on Earth. This 
New -Full L ine will be called the Real Line.  

--- PAGE 120 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 120 
 
 
Figure 85  
 
Likewise, the unit positions of the Leading Moon and the Lagging Moon 
also establish a line, but this line is in quadrature with the Sunrise -Sunset 
Line on Earth. The Earth is no longer between the Sun and Moon, now the 
Earth and Moon stand sid e by side. The Leading-Lagging L ine is now co -
linear with the Noon-Midnight Line on Earth. The Noon- Midnight L ine is 
in quadrature with the Su nrise -Sunset L ine. For reason of this quadrature 
displacement the Leading-Lagging L ine will be called the Imaginary Line.  
 
 
 
Figure 86  

--- PAGE 121 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 121  
 
 
 
 
Figure 87  
 
 Four poles exist in the Earthbound relationship:  
  I)  Sunrise    Real  
 II)  Noon      Imaginary  
 III) Sunset    Real  
 IV) Midnight   Imaginary  
 

--- PAGE 122 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 122  
 
 
 
Figure 88  
 The Imaginary Line is in a 90 degree r elation with the Real Line. It is said to 
be in quadrature. The Imaginary Line is one unit step in advance of the 
Real Line. This step is one unit versor rotation. Here is the cornerstone in 
Alternating Current Theory.   
 

--- PAGE 123 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 123  
(III) The Versor Operator j  
 

--- PAGE 124 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 124  
 
[1] Rotational Operation  
   
 
 
 
UNIT VERSOR ROTATION  
Figure 89  

--- PAGE 125 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 125  
1.1  The Unit Rotation  
 
The Sunrise -Sunset Line is transformed into the Noon- Midnight Line by 
one unit rotation of pi over two, or 90 degrees. This unit rotation is a Versor 
Operation; it is o ne unit amount of turning. This operation represents a 
rotation on an axis, such s the rotational axis of the Earth, and the Moon 
around it.  
 
 
 
UNIT VERSOR LUNAR ROTATION  
Figure 90  

--- PAGE 126 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 126 In versor symbolic form one advancing unit of rotation will be represent ed 
by the letter j . This letter j serves as an operator in a manner similar to the 
plus sign and minus sign which serve as arithmetic operators. The letter j is 
a versor operator.  
 
In rigorous form, this operator j exists as a pair, just as do the arithme tic 
pair of operators. The versor operators are hence, plus j and minus j. In 
symbolic representation the generalized operators are given as:  
 Positive 1, Positive j  
Negative 1, Negative j  
 
 
 
VERSOR LUNAR POSITIONS 
Figure 91  

--- PAGE 127 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 127  
 
 
VERSOR LUNAR POSITIONS 
Figure 92 
 
From the rotational standpoint, the versor position j is midway between the 
arithmetic positions of plus one and minus one.  
 
 
  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 128 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 128  
1.2  Bipolar Operations  
 
 
 
Figure 93  
 

--- PAGE 129 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 129 The arithmetic operation is a bipolar operation, the versor operation is a 
quadrapolar operation. An arithmetic operation can be derived from two 
successive versor operations. One unit bipolar operation is a reversal, or it 
is a turning of 180 degrees. The two are not operationally equivalent 
however. This can be a source of conf usion. A unit bipolar operation 
transforms the New Moon into the Full Moon. Negative one is one unit 
arithmetic step. In bipolar form the operation negative one is not a 180 
degree, or one pi radian rotation; it is an oppositional reversal of position. 
Its transformation is along a line, not around a circle.  
 Here shown is the versor and arithmetic operations, while analogous, are not equivalent. In analogy, the arithmetic operator is a bipolar versor 
operator that is non -rotational; it is a reversal. The quadrapolar versor 
operator is rotational, and reversal is derived via this rotation.  
 
This creates a similar distinction in Alternating Current Theory. The 
bipolar form of A.C. is commonly known as Single Phase. Single Phase 
A.C. is not rotational; it ex ists as sequential reversals. Here exist the reason 
for the difficulties in the creation o f the alternating current motor ; reversals 
do not produce rotation.  
 
 
[2]  Real and Imaginary Operators  
 2.1  Arithmetic Operators  
 
Since the Leading Moon and the Lagging Moon are positioned at the end 
points of the Imaginary Line, they are in opposition to each other; that is, 
they  are subtractive.  
   
 
 
 

--- PAGE 130 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 130 
 
 
Figure 94  
 
On the Real Line, the versor positions are New of Positive One, and Full, or 
Negative One. Accordingl y, on the Imaginary Line the versor positions are 
Leading, or Positive j, and Lagging, or Negative j. The arithmetic operations of plus and minus are operable on the Imaginary Line just as they are on the Real Line. However, arithmetic operations as commonly 
understood do not allow operations between the Real Line and the 
Imaginary Line. They are heterogeneous and cannot be directly combined. 
Here the laws of arithmetic must be extended to include this cross 
operation , this is done by uti lizing the Pythagor ean Theorem.  

--- PAGE 131 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 131  
2.2  Alternating Current  
 
Analogy can be made with alternating current relations. The Real Line can 
be related to the process o f direct current. This is a unidirectional plus to 
minus process. The Imaginary Line can be related to the process of Single 
Phase Alternating Current. This is a bi -directional process plus to minus -
minus to plus. With  D.C.,  the current is continuous and one way; in A .C. 
the current is in constant v ariation in both ways, but in A.C. as well as D.C. 
only a plus -minus re lation exists, that is, both are bipolar.  
  

--- PAGE 132 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 132 2.3  Four Versor Operators  
 
 
VERSOR LUNAR POSITIONS 
Figure 95  
 
In all, there are four versor operators. This is divided into a pair of oppositional versor operators  that within themselves are arithmetic 
operato rs. One pair is the Real Line of positive one and negative one; the 
other pair is the Imaginary line of positive j and negative j. The Real Line is 

--- PAGE 133 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 133 in quadrature with the Imaginary Line. This defines the four quadrature 
versor operators:  
  I)  Positive One , The New Moon  
 II)  Positive j, The Leading Moon  
 III) Negative One, The Full Moon  
 IV) Negative j, The Lagging Moon  
 Here establishes the symbolic representation of the lunar cycle. This 
quadrature form of the cycle establishes four unit versor positions  and four 
unit versor rotations; these from one unit position to the next. One unit 
rotation is expressed by the symbolic operator j. In terms of rotation rather 
than position this is given as:  
 
 I)  Positive One, No Rotation, No Change  
 II)  Positive j, O ne Unit Rotation, Pi Over Two Change (90°)  
 III) Negative One, Two Unit Rotations, One Pi Change (180°)  
 IV) Negative j, Three Unit Rotations, Three Pi Over Two Change   
   (270°)  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 134 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 134  
 
 
Figure 96  
 
 
  
 

--- PAGE 135 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 135 This expresses four unit rotations through a lunar cy cle of four unit 
positions, or phases. The sense of rotation  is from:  
 
New to Leading, One  
Leading to Full, Two  
Full to Lagging, Three  
Lagging to New, Four  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 97  

--- PAGE 136 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 136 The exponents are given as:  
 
Zero   No Rotation  
One  First Unit Rotation  
Two    Second  Unit Rotation 
Three   Third Unit Rotation  
Four   Fourth Unit Rotation 
 
 
 
Four unit rotations complete the cycle at Zero.  
Figure 98  

--- PAGE 137 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 137  
2.4  The Rotational Operator  
 
Each unit rotation can be represented by the letter j. Each unit rotation is 
one unit versor operation or one unit amount of turning in advance. The 
letter j defines a rotational operator, that is , operation by j advances the 
cycle by one unit step.  
 
The number of unit advances can be expressed by raising the operator j to a 
certain power or expo nent. By the law of exponents j to the first power is 
still j, one unit degree of turning. Likewise in arithmetic form positive j is 
still only j, one unit degree of turning.  
 
2.5  Versor Operations  
 
The versor operation j acts upon a given versor positio n. A versor position 
is the starting or stopping point for a versor operation. The operation is the 
act of rotating between positions. The versor operator is given by the letter 
j. In an analog form the arithmetical operator is given by the letter h. The 
letter j is a quarter cycle change; the letter h is a half cycle change. The 
symbolic operator h constituted an arithmetic reversal.  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 138 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 138  
 
 
Figure 99  
 

--- PAGE 139 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 139 For example, the New Moon is operated upon by j; the result is the Leading 
Moon.  
 
 
Figure 100 
 The Le ading Moon is again operated upon by j; the result is the Full Moon.  
 
 
 
Figure 101 

--- PAGE 140 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 140 The Full Moon is again operated upon by j; the result is the Lagging Moon.  
 
 
Figure 102 
 
Finally, the operator j is applied to the Lagging Moon; the result being the 
comp letion of the cycle at the New Moon.  
 
 
Figure 103 

--- PAGE 141 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 141  
The operator j was applied once, its first power, the operator j was applied 
a second time, its second power, it was applied a third time, its third 
power, finally the fourth application of j  returns to the zero power. The 
powers of the operator j define the number of times the operation has been performed. The numerical exponent defines the number of unit versor steps.  
 
 
 
Figure 104 

--- PAGE 142 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 142  
2.6  The Bipolar Operator 
 
A similar example exists for bipolar symb olic representation. The New 
Moon is operated upon by h, the result is the Full Moon.  
 
 
 
Figure 105 
 The Full Moon is in opposition to the New Moon, it is minus the New 
Moon.  
 
The Full Moon is again operated upon by h, the result is the New Moon.  
 The N ew Moon is in opposition to the Full Moon, again a minus relation, 
the New Moon is minus the Full Moon.   

--- PAGE 143 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 143 The operator h applied once is its first power, the operator h applied a 
second time is its second power, which takes it back to the start, or New, 
the zero power. Once is minus, twice is plus, back to the starting point of 
the reversals. It can be seen four operations j complete a cycle, and that two 
operations h complete an alternation.  
 
2.7  The Alternating Operator  
 
The bipolar “Cycle” alternates b etween minus and plus. Its lunar form is 
New, Full, New, Full, and etc. This is representative of so -called single 
phase alternating current. Common A.C. is in reality bipolar and thus single phase is a misnomer. Bipolar is two phase. This has become an 
entrenched misunderstanding, distorting the Theory of Phases. Actual 
single phase has but one pole positive one and its transmission involves 
only one wire, such as the telluric transmission system of Nikola Tesla.  
 
 
 
Figure 106 

--- PAGE 144 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 144  
In lunar representation it  is more correct to alternate between Leading and 
lagging in a bipolar A.C. configuration. This keeps in accord with the quadrapolar conception. Here the Leading Moon is operated upon by h, 
resulting in a Lagging Moon. The Lagging Moon is again operated up on by 
h, resulting in a Leading Moon, back to the point of origin. The continued 
operation is Leading, Lagging, Leading, Lagging, and etc. This again is an 
alternation, but now as an oscillation.  
 
2.8  Real and Reactive Power  
 The New -Full alternation is on the Real Line, the Leading -Lagging 
oscillation is on the Imaginary Line. The alternation and the oscillation exist in a quadrature relation, displaced by one unit versor step.  
 
In the alternating current analog the Real Line represents what is called 
“Real Power”, the Imaginary Line represents what is called “Reactive 
Power”. Real Power is the time rate of energy flow from production to consumption. This flow is in one direction, but alternates in its intensity. 
The reactive power is the rate of energy exchange between storage and 
return, this between two alternate forms of energy storage. This flow is bi-
directional, oscillating between forms of storage. Here the energy is 
trapped, none is produced or consumed, it is continuously re-cycled over 
and over  again. These two energies and power flows, the Real and the 
Reactive, are in quadrature with each other in the A.C. cycle. The Real and the Reactive are displaced by one unit versor step j.  
 
 

--- PAGE 145 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 145  
 
 
Figure 107 
 

--- PAGE 146 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 146 [3]  The Quadrapolar Versor Operator 
 
3.1  Bipolar Operation  
 
The bipolar alternation represents reversals between two states or 
positions. The operator is h. The quadrapolar cycle represents rotations between four states or positions. The operator is j.  
 
The bipolar form gives the so -called single phase A.C. The quadrapolar 
form gives the so -called polyphase A.C. The operator h in succession is a 
single phase wave, the operator j in succession is a polyphase wave. 
Operator h to the second power is one complete alternation or two 
reversals. Operator j to the fourth power is one complete cycle or four 
rotations.  
 
3.2  Fourth Order Expression  
 
One complete cycle is the result of four unit versor operations j, these in 
succession. Since the operator j is applied four times, j is multiplied by itself 
four times. Exponentially this is j to the fourth power. Hence, j to the fourth 
power is an identity of the quadrapolar cycle, lunar or A.C.  
 
Since this is one unit cycle, the expression is j to the fourth power and is 
equal to positive one.  
 
 
4TH ORDER E XPRESSION OF UNITY Figure 108 

--- PAGE 147 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 147 This is the fourth order algebraic expression of one unit cycle.  
 
In logarithmic form, the algebraic definition of the quadrapolar versor 
operator j is the fourth root of positive one, in exponential form this is 
expressed by positive one to the one fourth power.  
 
 
FOUR ROOTS OF THE QUADRAPOLAR VERSOR OPERATOR  
Figure 109 

--- PAGE 148 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 148  
 
 
 
QUADRAPOLAR VERSOR OPERATOR  
Figure 110 
 
 

--- PAGE 149 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 149  
 
 
+1 = j0  -1 = j2  √+1 = +1, -1  
+j - j1  -j = j3  √-1 = +j, -j 
Figure 111 
 
This fourth order expression h as four roots:  
 
I)  j to the zero power, positive one  
II)  j to the first power, positive j  
III) j to the second power, negative one  
IV) j to the third power, negative j  

--- PAGE 150 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 150  
[4]  Duo -Binary Representation  
 
4.1  Bipolar Real, Bipolar Imaginary  
 
A fourth order expression must  have four roots, these can be given in a 
quaternary number system of exponents, zero, one, two, and three. 
Likewise a second order expression must have two roots, these can be gien 
in a binary number system of exponents, zero and one.  
 It was shown that the Real Line, or the Imaginary Line each are bipolar within themselves. Each can be their own second order expressions, each 
has two roots in a binary series. The quaternary series of exponents can 
hereby be represented as a duo -binary series of exponents . This paring is 
unique to the four phase arch form in that it can be derived from two so -
called single phase forms in a quadrature relation, this is a great simplification.  
 
4.2  The Exponential Series  
 
In the duo -binary form of representation the quater nary form is split into 
an interlinked pair of binary type sequences. The exponents in the real 
binary sequence are the alternating numerals, zero and two. The exponents 
in the imaginary binary sequence are the alternating numerals, one and 
three.  
 
In the  duo-binary form each successive numeral exponent alternates 
between the Real and Imaginary sequences.  
 
 0, Real, Even  
 1, Imaginary, Odd  
 2, Real, Even  
 3, Imaginary, Odd  
  

--- PAGE 151 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 151 4.3  Roots of the Unit  
 
The four roots in duo -binary form are given as a pair of second order 
expressions, each having their own pair of square roots. Here the fourth 
root of positive one is given as a tandem pair of square roots, the square 
roots of positive one and the square roots of negative one. Each square root has two roots, thi s giving the four roots total. This gives the relations:  
 
I) Square Root of Positive One  
0) Positive one, Zero Power  
2) Negative One, Second Power  
 
II) Square Root of Negative One  
1) Positive j, First Power  
3) Negative j, Third Power  
 
4.4  Lunar Representation  
 In lunar form the New Moon and Full Moon is the Real Line. This is given 
by the square root of positive one, giving two roots, New and Full, that is, Positive and Negative One.  
 
The Leading Moon and Lagging Moon is the Imaginary Line. This is given 
by the squa re root of negative one, giving two roots, Leading and Lagging, 
that is positive and negative j. In all this gives four roots, the four lunar phases, here in duo -binary form.  
 
This provides the rigorous definition of what is exactly meant by the 
“square r oot of minus one”. It is an incomplete set of roots for the fourth 
root of positive one, these roots defining the operator j.    

--- PAGE 152 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 152  
(IV) Versor Relations Between Sun, 
Moon, and Earth  
 

--- PAGE 153 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 153  
[1]  Versor Attributes of Light and Dark  
 
1.1  Quadrapolar Aspects  
 
 
POSITIONS OF SUN, MOON & EARTH  
Figure 112 
 
Examination of the relative positions of the Sun, Moon, and Earth gives 
further insight into quadrapolar relatio nships and their application in 
alternating current theory.  
 Each unit versor rotation describes a quadrant in its passage from one unit 
versor position to the next, that is, from one phase to the following phase. 
Four unit rotations complete the cycle, this describing four distinct 
quadrants. Each quadrant manifests a distinct aspect of the cycle, such as  
winter, spring, summer, and fall. In lunar representation, a principle aspect 
is the ration of light to dark on the lunar face. These aspects can be related 
to aspects of alternating current.  
  
  
 

--- PAGE 154 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 154 1.2  Positions of the Sun and Moon 
 
 
 
Figure 113 

--- PAGE 155 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 155  
While facing a Full Moon the Sun is directly behind you. The Sun, Moon, 
and Earth are all in the same lin e, the Real Line. The Earth is p ositioned 
between the Sun and Moon. The face of the Moon is directed at the Sun 
behind you, this giving full illumination to the lunar face. Because the Sun 
and Moon are on opposite sides of the Earth, the Moon is in phase opposition; h ence, the operator negative one.  
 
 
 
Figure 114 
 During the New Moon you face the Sun and Moon. The Sun, moon, and 
Earth again are all in a line,  the Real Line, but now the Moon is positioned 
between the Earth and Sun. The Moon and Earth have exchanged positions relative to the Full Moon. The face of the Moon is directed at the Earth, no 
the Sun, hence the New Moon is not visible, is it dark. Becau se the moon 
and Sun are on the same side of the Earth, the Moon is in phase 
conjunction; hence the operator positive one.  
 
 
 
Figure 115 
 

--- PAGE 156 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 156 1.3  Co-Axial Systems  
 
Both the Full Moon and the New Moon are positioned on the Real Line. 
Phase conjunction is the position of positive one, phase opposition is the 
position of negative one. In the plus configuration the Sun and Moon are 
on the same side, in the minus configuration the Sun and Moon are on opposite sides.  
 
The New and Full Moon are on the Real Line and  this line is co -linear with 
the Sunrise -Sunset line. The Full Moon is at sunset, the New Moon is at 
sunrise. The Full Moon rises in the East the moment the Sun sets in the 
West. Here the lunar cycle of New -Full and the solar cycle of Sunrise -
Sunset are co -axial versor systems. These share a common axis, that of the 
Earth. However, each is an independent rotation.  
 
1.4  Quadrature Relations  
 
The Leading -Lagging Moon establishes the Imaginary Line. Now the Sun, 
Moon, and Earth are not in the same line, the Sun and Moon are at right 
angles with re spect to the Earth. Both the Moon and Earth face the Sun, 
side by side. Hereby only half the lunar face is light, th e side  directed at the 
Sun, the half directed away from the Sun is dark.   
 
 
 
Figure 116 

--- PAGE 157 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 157 When the ang le between the Moon -Earth -Sun is one pi over two (90˚), or 
positive j, the Moon is in Phase Leading Quadrature. When the angle 
between the Moon- Earth -Sun is three pi over two (270˚), or negative j, the 
Moon is in phase Lagging Quadrature.   
 
 
Figure 117 
 
Both the Leading Moon and the Lagging Moon are positioned on the 
Imaginary Line. The Phase Leading Quadrature is positive j, the Phase 
Lagging Quadrature is negative j. In the plus j configuration the Moon is on the noon position of Earth, the Sun is at the Sunset position of the Earth. 
The Moon and Sun are in Quadrature. In the minus j configuration the 
Moon is on the midnight position of the Earth, the Sun is on the sunrise 
position of the Earth. Again the Sun, Moon, and Earth are in Quadrature, but in an opposite sense. Sunrise and Sunset are on the Real Line, Leading 
and Lagging are on the Imaginary Line. The lunar cycle and the solar cycle 
are co -axial versor systems, but here the lunar cycle is n Quadrature with 
the solar cycle, they are “Out of Phase” . The Leading Moon is in the noon 
position that was occupied by the Sun in another part of the cycle; they are 
in different time frames, displaced one unit versor step. Likewise the Lagging Moon is in the midnight position occupied by the Sun I a different 
part of the cycle, and it is also displaced one unit versor step, just as was 

--- PAGE 158 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 158 the Leading Moon. The two co -axial versor systems, lunar and solar, are 
out of phase by one unit versor rotation j.  
 
 
 
Figure 118 
 
 

--- PAGE 159 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 159 1.5  Ratios of Light and Dark  
 
 
 
LUNAR RA TIOS OF LIGHT & DARK  
Figure 119 
 
The ratio of light and dark for Leading and Lagging is the same, 50 percent. 
However, the relative positions of light and dark are reversed from leading to Lagging. When the Leading Moon is in the noon position the light fa ce 
points towards the Sun setting in the West, its dark face points away to the East. Thus the face of the Moon appears half dark to the East, and half light 
to the West. This will be called a positive 50 percent. When the Lagging 
Moon is in the midnight p osition its light face points to the Sun rising in 
the East, the dark face pointing away to the West. The dark to light ratio is 
now the light to dark ratio, but both ratios are 50 percent. This will be 
called a negative 50 percent. Two 50 percent ratios exist: Leading, Positive 
50 percent, Lagging, negative 50 percent.  
 
The Full Moon is 100 percent light, 0 percent dark. The New Moon is 100 
percent dark, 0 percent light. Between the Full and New Moon is a total 
change from light to dark, that is, from all to none, and none to all. This is 

--- PAGE 160 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 160 not the case with the Leading -Lagging Moon. In both phases there is no 
change in the ratio of light to dark, only in its direction. This serves as an 
important distinction between the conditions of the Real Line and the 
imaginary Line. Analogous is the condition of Real Power and Reactive 
Power.  
 
[2]  Solar -Lunar Co -Axial Versors  
 
2.1  The pair of Cycles  
 
In the examples presented, two distinct cycles exist, lunar and solar. Both rotate upon the same axis. One set of phases  is New, Leading, Full, 
Lagging, the other set of phases is sunrise, noon, sunset, midnight. Each set of phases is a versor system, and these two systems are co -axial, they share 
a common axis, the rotational axis of the Earth.  
 
The quadrapolar versor rel ations of both cycles are given in exponential 
form as : 
 
The Lunar Cycle  
 
(0)  Zero Power, New  
(1)  First Power, Leading  
(2)  Second Power, Full  
(3)  Third Power, Lagging  
 
The Solar Cycle  
 
(0)  Zero Power, Sunrise  
(1)  First Power, Noon  
(2)  Second Power, Sunset  
(3)  Third Power, Midnigh t 
 
Both cycles begin anew at the fourth power.  

--- PAGE 161 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 161 2.2  Solar -Lunar Cycles  
 
 
+1 = j⁴     -1 = j2  
+h = √j     -h = h⁵  
+j = h2    -j = j3  
+k = h3    -k = h⁷  
 
COAXIAL VERSOR OPERATORS  
Figure 120 

--- PAGE 162 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 162  
The figure shows the basic relationships in a pair of co -axial versor 
systems. The light (White) system represents the solar cycle, the d ark 
(Black) system represents the lunar cycle. The lunar cycle is continuously 
falling behind the solar cycle. Therefore, the lunar cycle does not revolve at 
the same rate as the solar cycle, it is slower. The net result is that the phases of the Moon change from day to day. The lunar cycle is on a different 
frequency than the solar cycle. This leads to a complex analysis situation.  
 
INDUCTION MOTOR ARCH FORM  
Figure 121 
 
These co -axial versor systems rotate at different frequencies, these two 
frequencies in combination give rise to a difference frequency, know as a 
Beat Frequency; it is much slower than the rate at which the lunar and solar 
cycles revolve. Therefore, while the positions of the Sun and Moon rotate 
on a daily basis, the difference rotates on  a near monthly basis, giving the 

--- PAGE 163 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 163 cycle of lunar phases, commonly known as the “Lunar Cycle ”. This 
difference is known as a “Slip Frequency”. This slip frequency gives the 
apparent lunar cycle, that of the phase change, this being the difference of 
the sol ar cycle and the actual lunar cycle of revolution.   
 A similar condition of slip is encountered in the A.C. induction motor. Here the rotor constantly falls behind the rotating field of the stator. In 
basic terms, the rotor drags energy out of the stator, this at the rate of the 
slip frequency, by constantly falling behind.  
 
2.3  Counter Rotational Cycles  
 
Co-axial versor systems can also be counter -rotational. Refer again to 
Double Swastika (See Figure 120). Here the dark quadrapole rotates in the 
counter clockwise direction; the light quadrapole rotates in the clockwise 
direction.  In relation to a slip frequency, it is now the sum of the 
counterclockwise frequency and the clockwise frequency. If the dark and 
light quadrapoles counter -rotate at the same rat e, that is, with equal  but 
opposite frequencies, the slip frequency will be twice this. Therefore, 
counter -rotational cycles of a common frequency, 60 cycles per second for 
example, the resultant slip will be two times this, 120 cycles per second.  
 
At cert ain positions in the counter -rotating cycles, the poles of the light 
quadrapole overlap the poles of the dark quadrapole. During this overlap 
of light and dark poles, a distinct aspect of the cycles occurs.  
 
Shown in the figure the light cycle and dark cy cle are one half versor step 
“Out of Phase”. This constitutes one eighth of a unit cycle. The symbolic 
notations show, 1, h, j, k, are arbitrary representations in this more complex 
versor relationship, not as previously utilized. Certain complex 
interrela tions are shown at the bottom of the figure.  
 
 

--- PAGE 164 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 164 2.4  The Alternating Current Analog  
 
The counter -rotational co -axial versor system can represent the structure of 
alternating current power. In this analog, the light quadrapole represents 
the electromotive f orce (E.M.F.) of magnetic activity;  the dark quadrapole 
represents the displacement current of dielectric activity. The superposition 
of these two activities, in cooperation, gives rise to electric power.  
 
Since both the light and dark quadrapoles are rota ting at the same rate, but 
in opposite directions, the resultant power frequency is of twice the rate. 
For example, in a 60 cycle per second system the 60 cycle E.M.F. is counter 
rotational to the 60 cycle current. This gives rise to sum and difference 
frequency for the cycle of power. Hence, for a 60 cycle per second system, 
the cycle of power contains 120 cycles per second, the sum and zero cycles per second, the difference. The zero frequency is a D.C. offset representing 
the direction of power flow; the double frequency is the pulsation of power 
flow. Hence, the cycle of A.C. power is very much different than the pair of 
cycles that gave rise to it.  
 
At certain positions in their counter -rotating cycles, the poles of the light 
and dark  quadrapoles overl ap. This happens four times per cycle. Each 
overlap represents a specific electrical aspect.  
 
The four aspects are given as:  
 
I)  Energy Production, First Overlap  
II)  Energy Return and Storage, Second Overlap  
III) Energy Consumption, Third Overlap  
IV) Energy Storage and Return, Fourth Overlap  
  

--- PAGE 165 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 165  
(V) The Lunar Phases 
 

--- PAGE 166 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 166  
 [1] Light and Dark on the Lunar Face 
  
 
 
Figure 122 
 
1.1  Proportion of Light and Dark  
 
An important set of aspects are those produced by the proportion of light and dark on the lunar face. Four unit ratios of light and dark exist in the 
lunar quadrapolar relationship. These exist as a complimentary pair, the 
ratio of light to dark, and the r atio of dark to  light.  
 

--- PAGE 167 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 167  
This given is:  
   New     100% Dark    0% Light 
  Leading     50% Dark    50% Light  
 And  
   Full    100% Light    0% Dark  
  Lagging     50% Light    50% Dark  
  1.2  Positions of the Sun, Moon, and Earth  
 
The dark side of the New Moon faces away from the Sun, the light side of 
the Full Moon faces toward the Sun. This is along the Real Line.  
 
For the  condition of Leading Moon only half the light side is visible and 
only half the dark side is visible. The light side faces the Sun, but the Earth 
is now in Quadrature with the Sun and Moon. For the Lagging Moon again 
only half the light side is visible an d only half the dark side is visible. Since 
the Lagging Moon is on the opposite side of the Earth, the positions of light 
and dark on the lunar face are reversed. During the Leading Moon the light 
side is directed at sunset. During the Lagging Moon the lig ht side is 
directed at sunrise. The ratio for both are 50 percent, but the positions of light and dark are reversed.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 168 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 168  
 
 
Figure 123 
 
In the conditions of Full and New Moon, the light or dark face is on the Real Line. However, in the condition of Leadi ng and Lagging Moon these 
lay on the Imaginary Line, the direction of the light side is in Quadrature 
with this Imaginary Line.  For the New -Full conditions the directions are 
co-linear, for the Leading-Lagging conditions the directions are split into a Qua drature pair. These are important distinctions in Real and Imaginary 
relationships.  
 

--- PAGE 169 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 169  
 
 
Figure 124 
 
 

--- PAGE 170 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 170  
[2]  Electric Analog  
  
 
 
ALTERNATING CURRENTS VERSOR DIAGRAM  
EMF AND DISPLACEMENT CURRENT  
Figure 125 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

--- PAGE 171 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 171 
 
 
UNIT VERSOR ROTATIONS IN THE AC CYCL E 
Figure 126 

--- PAGE 172 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 172  
 
FOUR QUADRANTS OF ALTERNATING CURRENT  
Figure 127 

--- PAGE 173 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 173  
2.1  Lunar and Electric Phases  
 
The lunar aspects of light and dark in relation to the unit lunar phases can 
be made analogous with the aspects of alternating current. Four aspects 
exist in A.C. relationships as has been shown previously. These are:  
 
1) Energy Production  
2) Energy Return and Storage  
3) Energy Consumption 
4) Energy Storage and Return  
 
Production and consumption are on the Real Line, and storage and return 
are on the Imaginary Line.  
 
2.2  Proportion of Energy  
 
Energy production is an analogy to the dark phase, energy consumption is 
an analogy to the light phase. The proportions of light and dark are 
analogous to the proportions of production and consumption. These 
relations are given as:  
 
 New   100% Dark, Energy Production  
 Leading   50%  Dark, Energy Return  
     50%  Light, Energy Storage  
 Full,   100% Light, Energy Consumption  
 Lagging   50%  Light, Energy Storage  
     50%  Dark, Energy Return  
 
2.3  Cycle of Light and Dark  
 
The New Phase and the Leading Phase in the first half of the cycle d eliver 
energy, part is produced; part is returned from storage. For the Full Phase 
and the Lagging Phase in the second half of the cycle energy is taken, part 
by consumption , part being returned to stor age, for delivery in another 

--- PAGE 174 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 174 part of the cycle. These relations can be given in a complimentary 
symmetrical form:  
 
 100% Dark,     0% Light 
   50% Dark,   50% Light  
     0% Dark, 100% Light  
   50% Dark,   50% Light  
  100% Production  
     0% Consumption  
  50% Production  
 50% Consumption  
 
     0% Production  
 100% Consumption  
  50% Production  
 50% Consumption  
 
And back to:  
 
 100% Production  
     0% Consumption  
 
Energy is delivered in the first half of the cycle, energy is taken in the 
second half of the cycle. The dark  aspect is the supply of energy;  the light 
aspect is the demand of energy. Here given is the basic framework for the 
Four Quadrant Representation of the alternating electric wave.  
   

--- PAGE 175 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 175 [3]  Co-Axial Versor Form  
 
3.1  Energy Relations  
 
 
 
COUNTER ROTATION OF EMF & DISPLACEMENT CURRENT  
VERSORS SYSTEMS  
Figure 128 
 

--- PAGE 176 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 176 Referring again to the Double S wastika , one cycle is a cycle of light, the 
other cycle is a cycle of dark. The two cycles are counter -rotating 
quadrapoles, that of light revolving clockwise , that of dark revolving 
counterclockwise. The two quadrapoles are shown as a pair of co -axial 
versor rotations. In cooperation the two quadrapoles represent various 
configurations of electric energy.   
On the Real Line it is a single direction from production to consumption. 
Nothing is stored or returned, it is the same for A.C. or D.C. On the 
Imaginary Line it is in two directions, from return to storage and back from 
storage to return. Nothing is produced or consumed and it is strictly and A.C. condition .  
 On the Real Line the flow of energy is direct and can also be instantaneous, 
as with D.C. This energy arrives from external form and leaves to external 
form. On the Imaginary Line the flow of energy is in an oscillation at a 
definite cyclic frequency. The energy is trapped internally with nowhere to 
go. Energy is cyclically exchanged in for m from Storage to return and etc . 
Here established is the idea of Real Energy, doing work, and Imaginary 
Energy, existing only in a potential form, doing no work. The  Real Energy 
and the Imaginary Energy are in Quadrature within the cycle of the 
alternating electric wave.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 177 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 177  
VI) Ratios and Projections and the Sine 
and Cosine Functions  
 

--- PAGE 178 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 178 [1]  Projections of the Cycle  
 
 
 
PROPORTIONS OF LIGHT & DARK THROUGH THE LUN AR CYCLE  
Figure 12 9 
 
1.1  Images of Light and Dark  
 
The lunar ratios of light and dark are the result of angular protections seen 
on the Earth. The spherical surface of the Moon is always half light and half 
dark. On the Earth the Moon is not seen as spher ical, but seen as a circular 
disk. The phases seen on Earth result from the slip frequency.  
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 179 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 179 
 
 
LUNAR PROJECTIONS UPON SURFACE OF EARTH  
Figure 130 
 
1.2  Lunar Shadow  
 
As shown in the figure, the shadow of the Moon sweeps across the Earth 
during a sol ar eclipse, it forms a projection.  
 This projection is what is called a “Function” of the lunar position. This function is only an aspect of what gives rise to it. The projection shown 

--- PAGE 180 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 180 gives the basis for what is known as the tangent function. The rapid 
increase of shadow length at sunset is also based upon the tangent 
function. At the moment of sunset the shadow length is infinite, a characteristic of this kind of function.  
 
 
 
TANGENT FUNCTION  
Figure 131 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 181 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 181  
1.3  Sine and Cosine 
 
 
 
COSINE WAVE  
 
 
SINE WAVE  
Figure 132 

--- PAGE 182 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 182  
A fundamental function in alternating current theory is the Sine Function. 
Its complementary function is the Cosine Function, and it is often neglected 
in A.C. theory. These functions relate to rat ios that involve light and dark,  
or Real and Imaginary.  
  
 
 
SINE AND COSINE PROJECTIONS ON IMAGINARY & REAL LINES  
Figure 133 
 
In the figure shown are given the two fundamental projections, Sine and 
Cosine. These projections exist as shadows of a rotating length upon the Real Line or upon the Im aginary Line.  
  
 
  
 
 

--- PAGE 183 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 183 
 
 
CO-OPERATION OF SINE AND COSINE FUNCTIONS  
Figure 134 
 
In cooperation the Sine Function and the Cosine Function identify the position of the radius distance in the cycle of revolution. For the Sine Wave 
the view is from the side of t he circular cycle. This view is the projection 
drawn on the Imaginary Line. As the cycle moves around the circle, the projection upon the Imaginary Line moves up and down along its length, 
describing a Sine Wave.     
For the Cosine Wave again the view is f rom the side of the circular cycle, 
but this view is rotated 90 degrees, one unit versor step from the Sine Wave view. The projection is now drawn on the Real Line. As the cycle moves 
around the circle, the projection moves back and forth along the line length, describes a Cosine Wave.  

--- PAGE 184 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 184  
1.4  Shadows  
 
The projections that give rise to Sine and Cosine functions are only 
shadows of the cyclic position upon the Imaginary Line or the Real Line. 
They are a sort of “Mathematical Fictions” as Steinmetz would say. In themselves they do not completely represent a cycle, but only a certain 
aspect of it. Only by operating in cooperation can these two functions 
represent the cycle of revolution. In themselves they can only represent a 
cycle of alternation, such as singl e phase.  
 
1.5  Cooperation of the Sine and Cosine functions  
 
 
 
Figure 135 
 
(Editor's Note: To see an animation of this image, go to this website.)  
http://www.math .tamu.edu/~alarios/courses/TAMU/2013_fall_M151/mathgifs.html  
 
The cooperation of the Sine function and the Cosine function together 
define a position in the cycle. The position is here defined by a pair of 
ratios acting in Quadrature with respect to each other. The two ratios in 
themselves are alternations, but in cooperation are a rotation. Here exists 
the common misunderstanding that the alternating electric wave can simply be defined by the Sine wave. The alternating wave is a circle; it is a 

--- PAGE 185 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 185 rotational  cycle of revolution. It is a constant change in position, the 
amplitude is that of the radius length which is constant. In this view the 
alternating electric wave is a rotating continuous current. The misnomer 
presents itself here as to the use of the ter m alternating. Here it is a constant 
magnitude rotating at a constant rate. This is called a continuous wave or C. W. for short. These considerations are important in the understanding of the synchronous machine.  
 

--- PAGE 186 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 186  
Section Three  
 
Practical Aspects of Qua drapolar Versor 
Algebra  
 

--- PAGE 187 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 187  
(I) The Method of Descartes  
 

--- PAGE 188 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 188  
[1] The Cartesian Coordinate System  
 
1.1  Sine and Cosine 
 
 
 
SINE WAVE  
Figure 136 
 
The Sine function and the Cosine function are only devices to aid in 
defining a position in a cycle. They in a way  are like the blind man and the 
deaf man, which on their own are incapable of a complete perception, but in cooperation can define a reality.  
 
The use of Sine and Cosine to determine a cyclic position is known as the 
trigonometric method. An alternate method more suited to versor algebra 
is known as rectangular coordinates. This method determines the position 
by use of defining coordinates, one on the Real Line, one on the Imaginary Line. This works in accord with the principles of versor operators and the  
Pythagorean Theorem.    

--- PAGE 189 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 189  
 
 
PYTHAGOREAN ADDITION OF RADIUS  
Figure 137 
 
The method of rectangular coordinates originates with Rene Descartes; he is the father of the four quadrant representation, a very important concept 
in mathematics. Descartes was also first in proposing a Corporeal Aether, 
the idea later developed by Michael Faraday.  
   

--- PAGE 190 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 190  
 
 
 
RENE DESCARTES 1596 -1650   
Figure 138 
 

--- PAGE 191 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 191  
 
 
 
 
FOUR QUADRANT RECTANGULAR COORDINATE SYSTEM  
Figure 139 
 

--- PAGE 192 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 192  
1.2  Symmetrical Coordinate Systems  
 
 
 
Figure 140 

--- PAGE 193 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 193  
 
 
 
Figure 141 
 

--- PAGE 194 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 194  
 
 
Figure 142 
 

--- PAGE 195 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 195  
The system of rectangular coordinates gives four distinct quadrants and is 
well suited for quadrapolar cycle representation. It also has become the 
basis  for graphical analysis. It  is limited to rectangular configurations and 
cannot properly represent other forms of symmetrical coordinates, such as 
the triangular coordinates of three phase alternating current. All three phase problems must be converted to rectangular coordinates before 
calculation, such h as become commonplace.  
 After Steinmetz’s work Dr. Charles Fortescue of Westinghouse Electric Co. 
developed a more general system known as symmetrical coordinates, later known as symmetrical components by engineers using this system. This 
system defines a position in a cycle for any number of poles or phases, not 
just two or four. This method is very well suited for tripolar cycles, by 
utilizing tripolar versor operators. These are shown, as are other polypolar 
versors in the figures.         
 
While this method has found ex tensive application in electrical 
engineering, and it is a virtual revolution in analysis, also holding the key 
to solutions for higher order algebraic expressions, symmetrical 
components are completely ignored by mathematicians, and no book of 
general theory was  ever written by Dr. Fortescue, his work as abandoned 
by mathematics.  
 

--- PAGE 196 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 196  
1.3  Latitude and Longitude  
 
 
 
Figure 143 
 
 
 
Figure 144 

--- PAGE 197 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 197 
 
 
Figure 145 
 
 
 
Figure 146 

--- PAGE 198 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 198  
The sys tem of Descartes is given the common name of “The Cartesian 
Coordinate System”.  This wo rk gave rise to the concept of Latitude and 
Longitude, and their use in defining a position on the surface of the Earth. 
This led to a major advance in navigation. It is the origin of the 
mathematics of position.   
Latitude is the Imaginary coordinate, Longitude is the real coordinate. The 
surface of the Earth is divided into squares by individual lines of Real and 
Imaginary orientation.  
 
 
 
Figure  147 
 As depicted in the figure the X coordinate Real Line is the equator of the 
Earth, the Y coordinate Imagi nary Line arbitrarily chosen, Greenwich, 
England for example. The X line is the L atitude, the Y line is the Longitude.  

--- PAGE 199 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 199  
1.4  Coordinate Derived Positions  
 
 
 
RECTANGULAR COORDINATE REPRESENTATION OF CIRCULAR 
RADIUS VECTOR  
Figure 148 
 
As shown in the fig ure the coordinate chosen on each line defines a 
position P. One quadrant out of a possible four is shown in the diagram. 
Vertical coordinates are Imaginary, prefixed by a positive j. Horizontal 
coordinates are Real, prefixed by positive one. This is the N ew-Leading 
Quadrant, and both coordinates are positive. In general the coordinates are 
as follows:  
 Quadrant
     Real       Imaginary  
1        Positive 1     Positive j  
2        Positive 1     Negative j  
3        Negative 1     Negative j  
4        Negative 1     Positive j  

--- PAGE 200 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 200  
In lunar representation a similar relation exists:  
 Phase
      Left Side     Right Side  
New        Dark       Dark  
Leading       Dark       Light 
Full       Light      Light 
Lagging       Light      Dark   
 
Each quadrant  has its own relations of p ositive -negative or ligh t-dark.  
 
 
 
1.5  Pythagorean Ratios  
 
 
 
PYTHAGOREAN THEOREM APPLIED TO A CIRCLE  
Figure 149 
 
 

--- PAGE 201 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 201  
 
ROTATIONAL RADIUS r = 1 
POSITIONAL POINT P  
Figure 1 50 
 
The length of the radius extending from the point of origin, O, to the positional point, P, is shown in the figure as a directed radius, r. This 
radius can be the distance, r, from the center of the Earth, O, out to the distant Moon, P.  
 The length of radial distance r can be derived from the vertical Imaginary coordinate , this in quad rature with the horizontal Real coordinate.  This is 
derived by means of the Pythagorean Theorem. Here the two coordinates are added together in a complex manner. The Pythagorean relation allows 
for the extension of the laws of arithmetic to include Quadrat ure addition 
and subtraction between Real and Imaginary quantities. The methods of 
Pythagoras and Descartes gives the basis for a four quadrant arithmetic.  

--- PAGE 202 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 202  
In common arithmetic the resultant is determined y the sum of the 
coordinates on only a single li ne, the Real or Imaginary Line. Here Real 
cannot be added to Imaginary. In Pythagorean arithmetic the square of the sum is the sum of the Real coordinate squared and the Imaginary 
coordinate squared. The complex sum is then the square root of the sum of the squares. This resultant is the radial distance from the origin or center 
out to the circle of the cycle. This radius is of unit value such as, the  
distance to the Moon, the power contained in the A.C. system, etc. The Real and Imaginary coordinates becom e percentages, or ratios, of this unit 
radius equal to one or 100%.  
 

--- PAGE 203 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 203 [2] Ratios Derived F rom the Unit Radius  
 
2.1  Positions in Terms of Coordinates  
 
 
RECTANGULAR COORDINATE REPRESENTATION OF CIRCULAR 
RADIUS VECTOR  
Figure 15 1 
 
Point of origin, O, and po sitional point, P, establish a radial distance, r. This 
radius is rotated from the New position by angle, Ө. The positional point, 
P, is derived fro m the Real coordinate, x , and the Imaginary coordinate, y. 
The radius, r, has a magnitude derived from Pytha gorean addition. There 
exists the angle of rotation, Ө , the ratio of X to the unit radius and the ratio 
of y to the unit radius.  The radius is 100%. Here the rotational angle works 
with the ratios and gives position, P. The y ratio is the Sine Function, the x ratio is the Cosine Function. Radius, r, in terms of an angle, Ө, is called the 
polar representation of the cycle, or just the polar method.  
 

--- PAGE 204 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 204 2.2  Radius of Unit Value  
 
 
 
Figure 152 
 
The given radius in a cycle is a constant and is normalized so as t o equal 
one. This distinguishes a versor operation from a vector operation. The 
vector operation is for a radius of any length, the versor operation is for a 
radius of unit length. A vector is a direction, a versor is a rotation. This 
often gets confused a nd Heaviside warns of this.  
 
The versor is dimensionless.  

--- PAGE 205 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 205  
 
 
UNIT HAND LENGTHS  
Figure 153 
 
For the Imaginary coordinate the projection on the Imaginary Line is a 
percent, or fraction, of radius, r. This is the Sine Function of the angle, Ө. 
For the Real coordinate the projection on the Real Line is a percent, or 
fraction of the radius, r. This is the Cosine Function of the angle, Ө.  
 The radius, r, is constant, and i t is 100% of its self. As positional point, P, 
progresses along the circle of the cycle, the shadows of radius, r, on the 
Real and Imaginary Lines go through a continuous and complimentary 
variation in magnitude. The Sine and Cosine Functions perform the 
transform between polar and rectangular coordinate systems.  
 

--- PAGE 206 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 206  
For the rotational cycle of the lunar phases, or the A.C. wave, the radius is 
made unit value , it is equal to one, or 100%. The coordinates, x, and y, are a 
certain percentage of this unit value . When a coordinate is coincident with 
the radius then the coordinate is a maximum of 100%, its complimentary 
coordinate is 0% . For example, if the rotating unit radius is horizontal, x, is 
100%, y is 0% . Conversely, if the rotating unit radius is vertical , y, is 100%, 
x, is 0%. When this radius is coincident with the Real Line, or the Imaginary Line, then a unit phase, or versor position is established in the 
quadrapolar relationship. The system of rectangular coordinates is a 
geometrical identity of a qua drapolar system, this making it very well 
suited for the task of representation.  
 
 

--- PAGE 207 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 207  
 
 
Figure 154 

--- PAGE 208 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 208  
 
 
 
Figure 155 
 

--- PAGE 209 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 209  
 
 
 
Figure 156 
 
 

--- PAGE 210 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 210  
 
 
 
Figure 157 
 

--- PAGE 211 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 211  
 
 
 
Figure 158 
 

--- PAGE 212 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 212  
 
 
 
Figure 159 
 

--- PAGE 213 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 213  
 
 
 
Figure 160 
 

--- PAGE 214 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 214  
 
 
 
Figure 161 
 

--- PAGE 215 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 215  
 
 
 
Figure 162 
 

--- PAGE 216 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 216  
 
 
 
Figur e 163 
 

--- PAGE 217 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 217  
 
 
 
Figure 164 
  

--- PAGE 218 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 218  
 
 
 
Figure 165 
 

--- PAGE 219 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 219  
 
 
 
Figure 166 
 

--- PAGE 220 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 220  
 
 
 
Figure 167 
 
 

--- PAGE 221 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 221  
 
 
 
Figure 168 
 
 

--- PAGE 222 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 222  
 
 
 
Figure 169 
 

--- PAGE 223 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 223  
 
 
 
Figure 170 
  

--- PAGE 224 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 224  
 
 
 
 
Figure 171 
 
 

--- PAGE 225 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 225  
 
 
 
Figure 172 
 

--- PAGE 226 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 226  
 
 
 
Figure 173 
  

--- PAGE 227 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 227  
 
 
 
Figure 174 
  

--- PAGE 228 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 228  
 
 
 
Figure 175 
 

--- PAGE 229 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 229  
 
 
 
Figure 176 
  

--- PAGE 230 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 230  
 
 
 
Figure 177 
 
 

--- PAGE 231 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 231  
 
 
 
Figure 178 
 

--- PAGE 232 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 232  
 
 
 
Figure 179 
 

--- PAGE 233 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 233  
2.3  Electric Analog  
 
The position of point P is in constant motion as the rotational cycle 
advances. As this point moves along its circular path on the unit circle the 
percent values, x, and, y, go throug h constant variation. These variations 
are known as alternations. The ratios involving, x, and, y, with respect to 
the nit radius also are in constant variation, describing a Sine wave and its 
complimentary Cosine wave.  
 The ratio of the Imaginary coordina te to the unit radius defines the Sine 
function, and its angle Ө. The ratio of the Real coordinate to the unit radius 
defines the Cosine function, and its angle Ө. A coordinate is always a 
decimal fraction of the unit radius, thus it can be expressed as a percent.  
 
 
 
SINE AND COSINE PROJECTIONS  
INDUCTION FACTOR & POWER FACTOR  
Figure 180 
 

--- PAGE 234 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 234 In alternating current theory the percent Real, or Cosine function, is known 
as the power factor. This factor is the ratio of the Real Power to the 
Pythagorean sum of the  Real and Imaginary powers, this known as the 
Apparent Power. The percent Imaginary Power, or Sine function, is called the Induction Factor. This factor is the ratio of the Imaginary Power to the 
Apparent Power. The Induction Factor is generally ignored. I maginary 
Power is also known as Reactive Power. In both cases the Apparent Power 
is the P ythagorean sum of the Real and Reactive Power.  
 The Power Factor expresses the energy produced or consumed; energy that 
does real work. The Induction Factor expresses  the energy stored, energy 
that does no work but is confined to storage elements. In a cooperative 
manner, as with the Sine and Cosine functions, the Power and Induction 
Factors conjointly act to give the position of the alternating wave with 
respect to the unit, or reference, A.C. cycle.  
 
2.4  Angular and Rectangular Representation  
 
Through the application of the Power Factor and the Induction Factor the 
Sine and Cosine Functions can be left out of the A.C. representation, as can 
the attendant complexitie s of the trigonometric functions in general. The 
A.C. wave is hereby not expressed in an angular form, but in the form of 
simple ratios, these relating to Real and Reactive Power as read from the 
common watt meter and VAR meter on the A.C. switchboard. The  Power 
Factor and Induction Factor work together to define a versor position at any point along the A.C. Cycle. Differential equations become versor 
equations and  great simplification results.  
Rectangular coordinates gi ve the quadrantal versor positions. This leads to 
the form of mathematical representation known as the “Steinmetz 
Method”. This is a simple, but most powerful mathematical tool, for 
alternating current engineering.  
 

--- PAGE 235 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 235  
(II) The Method of Steinmetz  
 
 
 
Charles Proteus Steinmetz  
Figure 181 
 

--- PAGE 236 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 236  
[1] Application of Versor Algebra  
 
1.1  Symbolic Representation  
 Thus far an extensive treatment of versor operators and versor positio ns 
has been presented. The concept of Real and Imaginary has been solidly established as well as the basic polar and rect angular coordinate systems. 
These concepts have here been directed toward the development of a quadrapolar symbolic algebra, or what may be called a geometric algebra.  
 
While this has been a very complex and detailed jou rney, it has been a 
necessary passa ge from Pythagoras to Steinmetz. A symbolic 
representation of the alternating electric wave has been arrived at. What 
follows is the application of the knowledge gained, this directed toward the works of Steinmetz and Tesl a, the masters of alternating curr ent.  
 
1.2  The Steinmetz Method 
 
Unification of the four quadrant rectangular coordinate system with a quadrapolar versor operator system gives what is known as the symbolic 
method. The symbolic method allows for the algebraic expression of 
alternating cu rrent problems. Engineering is founded upon algebra, and 
this eliminates the need for highly complicated graphical representation in Cartesian coordinates, and polar representation involving lengthy trigonometric operations. Moreover, the symbolic method i s remarkably 
simple and easy to understand, this in striking contract to the original representation I terms of the differential calculus. This does no find favor 
with mathematicians, but is eagerly accepted by engineers, so much so that 
Ernst Alexanderson  emigrated  from  Sweden to America to work side by 
side with Carl Steinmetz, promoter of the symbolic method.  
 The symbolic method finds its origin in the work of Carl Proteus Steinmetz. 
Accordingly it is known as the “Steinmetz Method”. This method of A.C . 

--- PAGE 237 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 237 analysis created world fame for Steinmetz and it has become the 
foundation of the theory and calculation of alternating current phenomena. 
However, there are those die-hards who still submit to the self-flagellation 
of trigonometric functions and identities.  
 The Steinmetz Method is based upon his application of the versor operator j. In his application the operator j is reworked into his won quadrantal 
vector operator. Oliver Heaviside gave warning about mixing versors and 
vectors in his writings. This complication gives rise to certain imitations in 
the methods of Steinmetz.  
 
 
 
SQUARE ROOT OF MINUS ONE  
Figure 182 
 Although Steinmetz initially defines his operator as the fourth root of 
positive one, he applies it in a duo -binary form, this defining his  operator 
as the square root of negative one. The name of Steinmetz is inexorably 
connected with the phrase “The Square Root of Minus One”, accordingly 
out of his work.   

--- PAGE 238 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 238  
1.3  Promethean Myth 
 
It was once said that “General Electric gave Steinmetz permis sion to create 
electricity from the square root of minus one”. What does this mean? This would involve a rotation turning Reactive Energy into Real Energy. Since Reactive Energy involves no work, but Real Energy does, this statement by 
G.E. would covertly imply ener gy synthesis, the Holy Grail of electrical 
engineering. In the mind of the physicist this is impossible, but in the mind of the mathematician the square root of minus one is impossible.  When 
Steinmetz was asked later in life if he discovered a “N ew type of electricity” 
his answer was no. Can we believe him?   
In any case it can be said that he was a Prometheus that stole the fire, the 
square root of minus one, from the Gods, the mathematicians. And it came 
to pass that the Gods were no t happy.  
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 239 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 239 [2] The Wizard  
 
 
 
THOMAS ALVA EDISON (1847 -1931) WITH STEINMETZ   
Figure 183 
 
2.1  Experiments  
 Steinmetz was known as “The Wizard of Schenectady”. Schenectady, New 
York was the home of General Electric. Shown in the figure is Steinmetz with Edison. The  two spent much time together. It should be noted that 
General Electric was in its origins Edison General Electric, but Edison’s company was taken away from him.  
 Both Steinmetz and Edison were avid experimenters. In fact, this is what makes the work of S teinmetz so significant, it is that his work was founded 
upon actual experiments, not just elegant theories. One can only imagine what these two may have had going on in their late night experiments. 
Shown in the figure is Edison and Steinmetz exami ning in sulator damage 
during an artificial lightning experiment.  

--- PAGE 240 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 240  
It is known that Thomas Edison has been intent on making a telephone to 
talk with the dead. Moreover, it has been rumored that Carl Steinmetz was 
making a “Time Television” in order to view past h istorical events. These 
two experimenters, with their incredible knowledge and resources may have created the original Outer Limits episode called “Borderlands”. It is of interest to note that the world of the square root of minus one inspired 
Lewis Carrol l to write his Through The Looking Glass
, commonly known 
as “Alice in Wonderland”.  
 
2.2  The Lizard  
 
 
 
STEINMETZ WRITING A BOOK IN HIS CANOE  
Figure 184 
 
To the few that knew Carl Steinmetz personally, he may have been better 
called the “Lizard of Schenectady”. He would often vanish into the bushes 

--- PAGE 241 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 241 of upstate New York, no to be seen for weeks. General Electric would have 
to send a search party to find him. He would be found on some stream in 
his canoe, busy writing one of his famous books. Steinmetz called  his hole 
in the bushes “Camp Mohawk”.  
 
2.3  His Origin  
 
 
 
KARL  RUDOLPH  STEINMETZ  
Figure 185 
 
Steinmetz was born Karl Rudolph Steinmetz on April 9, 1865  in Breslau, 
Germany. He emerged into this world as a deformed hunchback dwarf. 
His own father was c onsidering having him euthanized at birth. The adult 
figure of Steinmetz was much like that of Igor the switchboard operator for 

--- PAGE 242 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 242 Dr. Frankenstein. Surely Steinmetz in his G.E. laboratory would fit the 
scene in The Mole. (Dr. Frankenstein as Tesla?)  
 
 
 
THE  LIZARD OF SCHENECTADY  
Figure 186 
 
Steinmetz filled his home with desert wildlife, toxic snakes, and lizards 
included. Open wire lines and knife switches on the walls adorned the 
home of Steinmetz. He lived an isolated existence from a social standpoint, 
and a few friends saw to his basic needs. (The Berg family adopted him). 
However in the public mind, Carl  "Proteus" Steinmetz was a "Hero Figure", 

--- PAGE 243 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 243 a Thor that threw giant bolts of his homemade lightning and walked 
through the "Looking Glass" of mathematics.  It is unfortunate that his fame 
finally got the best of him later in life and he finally succumbed to the delusional theories of Albert Einstein as did so many other misfortunate 
souls.  
 
2.4  The Educator 
 
 
CHARLES PROTEUS STEINMETZ 1865 -1923   
Figure 18 7 
 
What seemed important to Steinmetz was education and accordingly he 
was an excellent educator. His ability to make the complex so simple is 
unparalleled. He established a regular lecture series at Union College. The series led to his book Discharges, Waves and Impulses
.  

--- PAGE 244 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 244  
During his college years in Germany he was a communist agitator, 
working in defiance against Chancellor Bismarck . He was to be arrested 
and executed, but escaped to America. His socialist -political interests were 
active throughout his l ife. This probably is what in part led to his position 
as director of the New York Department of Education.  
 
By far, Steinmetz was the foremost professor of electricity. The natural 
complementary -symmetry of electrical forces is made very clear in the 
writings of Steinmetz, something not found in the works of others. 
Steinmetz died at age 59 on October 26,  1923 and is best remembered as 
The Professor of Electricity.  
 

--- PAGE 245 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 245  
(III) The Rotary Field of Nikola Tesla  
 

--- PAGE 246 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 246  
[1] The Four Quadrant Arch Type  
 
 
Figure 18 8 
 
1.1  Quadrantal Natural Laws  
 
The works of the masters is rooted in an understanding of nature's laws. 
Steinmetz wrote his books in nature ’s wilderness at Camp Mohawk. Nikola 
Tesla's visions came via his observation of natural events. Natural 
knowledge is gained through experiment, observation, and experience.  
 The laws of electricity are but a subset of the laws of nature. Electricity is 
not just something concocted in someone's mind, electricity was here 
before anyone even thought about it. Its presence eluded the mind of man for untold centuries.  
 
The arch forms of electricity were already latent in the arch forms of the 
American Indian, he was the first American to utilize the basic Four 
Quadrant Arch Type. The inventions of Nikola Tesla, for the mo st part, are 
quadrapolar and accordingly the A.C. math of Steinmetz is quadrapolar. 
 
  

--- PAGE 247 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 247 The I ntegratron is a unique merging of the quadrapolar forms of the 
American Indian and t hose of Nikola Tesla, with the  math of Steinmetz.  
 
1.2  Quadrantal Attributes and Arch Forms  
 
 
 
INDIAN QUADRANTAL ASPECTS  
Figure 189 
 

--- PAGE 248 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 248  
Each unit versor rotation sweeps out a quadrant as it passes from one unit 
versor position to the next in the cycle of revolution. This quadrant spans 
one pair of phases. One complete cycle of revoluti on spans four quadrants. 
Each of these quadrants has its own particular attributes or aspects, this for the Moon, the seasons, or for alternating current.   
One particular set of aspects has been the ratio of light and  dark on the  
lunar face, another has b een the ratios of Real and Reactive Power on the 
A.C. cycle. Shown in the figure  are the aspects of four distinct quadrants, 
this in American Indian expression. Four phases are given in a quadrantal 
symbolic form:  
 Versor
   Name    Phase    Color  
0     Wolf     1     Red 
1     Hawk    2     Yellow  
2     Bear     3     White  
3     Snake    4     Black  
 
 

--- PAGE 249 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 249  
 
Figure 190 
 
The symbolic diagram of George Van Tassle closely resembles that of the 
American Indian. However, his diagram is one unit versor rotation, j, behin d that of the Indian. His use of the colors Red and Yellow on the 
central column condenser structures is noteworthy.  
 

--- PAGE 250 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 250  
 
 
SYMBOLIC QUADRANTAL ARCH FORM  
Figure 191 
 
The figure shown is a symbolic four quadrant arch form, note again the color coding:  
 Phas e
      Color  
 
 1       Red 
 2       YYYeeellllllooowww 
 3       White 
 4       Black  
 

--- PAGE 251 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 251  
Red and White are in opposition on the Real Plane, Yellow and Black are in 
opposition on the Imaginary Plane.  
 
 
 
INDIAN SYMBOLIC ROTOR  
Figure 192 
 Shown is a more basic arch form  of American Indian origin. This  consists of 
strin g color coded windings on a tor oidal core. Another set of windings is 
on an internal quadrature pair of straight cores.  
 

--- PAGE 252 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 252  
 
 
 
TESLA SYNCRONOUS MOTOR  
Figure 193 
 Nikola Tesla captured in his mind these arch forms during his poly phase 
field vision. The arch for m of the Indian is transformed into the arch for m 
of the Tesla motor. This is the synchronous machi ne of Nikola Tesla's 
invention.  
  

--- PAGE 253 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 253  
[2] The Synchronous Machine  
 
 
 
Figure 194 
 
 
2.1  The Invention 
 
Shown in the figure is the patent diagram of the synchronous motor 
invention of Nikola Tesla.  
 

--- PAGE 254 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 254  
 
 
 
NIAGRA GENERATOR NAME PLATE 
Figure 195 
 This invention developed into the giant multi -megawatt synchronous 
alternators installed at Niag ara nine years after his patent was issued.  
 

--- PAGE 255 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 255  
 
 
SYNCHRONOUS ALTERNATORS IN OPERATION  
Figure 196 
 
Shown in the figure is a typical application and installation of synchronous 
alternators, these used for hydroelectric generation.  
  

--- PAGE 256 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 256  
2.2  Real and Imaginary Currents  
 
 
 
TESLA SYNCRONOUS MOTOR  
Figure 197 
 
The Tesla synchronous arch form shown serves to demonstrate certain 
basic principles of its operation. It is of a four pole construction with a bipolar rotor structure. The stator windings are connected in mesh, this in a 
closed loop constituting a four phase square. Shown is a four currents 
drawn from four phase conductors, or "Four Wire" configuration. The four 
currents are shown as, 
, 
, 
, and 
 . Each current leads the pre vious 
current by one quarter cycle, or one unit versor rotation.  

--- PAGE 257 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 257  
The net result of this mesh connection is that a pair of currents is 
established:  
 
 I1 = i2 + i4 
 I2 = i1 + i3 
 Current One is a Real Current and Current Two  is an Imaginary Current. 
These two currents act at right angles, or in space quadrature, upon the 
rotor magnet. One current leads the other, this in a "New Leading" relation. This displacement impels the rotor to revolve.  
 
The specific position of the rotor magnet is locked in phase with the A.C. 
cycle, and the rotor follows the A.C. wave revolving in the stator. The rotor turns in synchronism with the A.C. wave, hence the name "Synchronous 
Machine".  
  
2.3  Rotating Transformer  
 
The synchronous machine transforms energy between a rotar y mechanical 
form and a rotary electrical form. This transformation is bidirectional in that the same machine can be a motor, or it can be a generator. Moreover, 
the synchronous machine can be both at the same time, this in accord with 
the law of reciproci ty. This classifies the synchronous machine as a 
transformer, it transforms between mechanical and electrical forms of energy. This gives the synchronous machine a distinct advantage over 
other forms of rotating electrical apparatus.  
 

--- PAGE 258 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 258 2.4  Synchronous Mo tor 
 
 
Figure 198 
 
Shown is a schematic representation of a common form of synchronous motor. This machine uses a quadrature pair of rotor magnets rather than 
the single rotor magnet shown in the patent. This is typical in practical 
construction. The stato r windings are reconfigured in accord with the 
double rotor and is called in practice a "Four pole  Machine". This type of 
synchronous motor thus turns at one half speed . The more poles the lower 
fraction of speed.  

--- PAGE 259 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 259  
Here exists two members, a stator electr omagnet, and a rotor 
electromagnet. The stator windings are flat loops embedded into the stator iron, the rotor windings are solenoidal on salient iron poles. The rotor 
windings are energized with a direct current rendering the salient poles 
magnets.  The stator windings are fed by a four phase alternating current. These poly-phase currents impel the rotation of the rotor magnets . 
 Two currents are fed into the stator windings, a Real Current is sent 
through one set of windings, an Imaginary Current is sent through the 
other set of windings. The "Real Coils" are shown as solid lines, the 
"Imaginary Coils" are shown in dotted lines.  
 The D.C. current in the rotating windings flows in series through its coils 
giving an alternate North-South -North -South polarit y on the salient poles. 
The pole faces follow the rotating field produced by the poly -phase 
currents in the stator windings.  
 
2.5  Space -Time Phase 
 
A unique property of the synchronous machine is its controlled phase 
characteristics. Shown in the figure o f the motor is the rotor assuming 
various positions with respect to the stator windings. Each rotor position 
shown is in step with a particular aspect of the rotating electric wave. There 
are four total:  
 
I)  Energy Production  
II)  Energy Return and Storage  
III) Energ y Consumption 
IV) Energy Storage and Return  
 
The rotor, as shown, can be in the energy consumption position, or it can 
be in the energy storage position, this position on the rotating electric 
wave. In the former case, the machine acts as a motor, in the latter case it 
acts as a reactance , neither consuming nor producing energy. The 

--- PAGE 260 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 260 synchronous machine can synthesize any aspect of the rotating electric 
wave by setting the rotor excitation to that aspect.  
 Here exists the remarkable condition that the position of the rotor in space 
is in an equivalence with the position of the A.C. wave in time. The Space 
Phase and the Time Phase are in unison. It can be reasoned here that the synchronous machine operates as a Space -Time Transformer.  
 

--- PAGE 261 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 261 [3] Motor Operation 
 
3.1  Basic Motor Layout  
 
 
SYNCHRONOUS MACHINE OPERATION  
Figure 199 
 
The elementary principles of Nikola Tesla's rotating magnetic field can be 
understood with the aid of the figure shown. Here exists a stator assembly 
consisting of four cubical A.C. electroma gnets, each with a copper strip 
winding of one turn. These stator electromagnets are arranged in a 

--- PAGE 262 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 262 quadrapolar configuration . The rotor is a bar magnet free to rotate on a 
transverse shaft. Since this rotor is a permanent magnet it needs no 
windings or D.C . excitation.  
The stator windings are connected in opposing pairs, the horizontal electromagnets in series as one current path ; the vertical electromagnets in 
series as another current path. Two independent currents exist, the 
horizontal and the vertical.  The opposing poles in each pair are in phase 
opposition so that when one pole face is North, the opposing pole face is South. The flow of magnetism is then between the left and right poles, or 
between the upper and lower poles.  
 
The two current paths are  connected to two independent sources of 
current. The horizontal path is fed with Real Current, the vertical path is fed with Imaginary Current. The Real Current establishes a South polarity 
on the left pole face, and a North polarity on the right pole fac e. The 
Imaginary Current establishes a South polarity on the upper pole face and 
a North polarity on the lower pole face.  
 
The two alternating currents  create alternating magnetic polarities between 
their opposing pole faces.   
3.2  The Four Motor pole s 
 
Each of the four pole faces can be equated with a corresponding lunar 
versor position:  
 
(0)  Left pole   New    Phase 1 
(1)  Upper pole   Leading   Phase 2 
(2)  Right pole   Full   Phase 3 
(3)  Lower pole   Lagging   Phase 4 
 
In each versor position the current in that position is a maximum, and its 
pole face is South. A maximum South pole identifies the rotating versor 
position of the A.C. wave as it moves from pole to wave as it moves from 

--- PAGE 263 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 263 pole to pole, from left being South, then upper being South, and so forth 
around the stat or assembly.  
 The four pole faces enclose a space around the rotating bar magnet. The 
rotor magnet is shown in the horizontal, or Rea l Position. The North end of 
the magnet is facing  the New pole , which is not yet energized , but the 
magnet has oriented itself to the nearest magnetic material in the stator. The rotor bar magnet is now static.  
 When the electric wave is first applied, the Real Current acts with full force 
while the Imaginary Currents are still dormant. The bar magnet is now held rigidly in p lace by the left and right electromagnets. No current flow 
exists yet in the upper and lower electromagnets, hence, they have no influence upon the rotor. The A.C. cycle and the bar magnet are now both 
in the New Position.  
 
3.3  Sine and Cosine Functions  
 
The curves shown in the figures show the Real Currents as a Cosine Wave, 
and the Imaginary Currents as a Sine Wave. The A.C. cycle is shown from 
its start at angle Zero Pi, to its end at angle Two Pi. The stator 
electromagnets were energized at the start of the cycle in its New Position. 
At this start of the cycle the Cosine Curre nt is at its maximum, it is 100 
percent , as given by the Cosine Function. Also, at the start the Sine Current 
is at its zero crossing, it is zero percent, as given by the Sine Function. At 
this point in the cycle only the horizontal electromagnets act, holding the 
bar magnet in the New Position.  
 
As the cycle advances onward from its New Position, the Cosine Current 
wanes and the Sine Current waxes. The Rising Sine, or Imaginary, Current 
in the vertical electromagnets give rise to an increasing magnetic force between the upper and lower pole faces. The Falling Cosine, or Real, 
Currents in the horizontal electromagnets result in a wakening magnetic 
force between the left and right p ole faces. Cyclically the horizontal poles 
lose their influence on the rotor magnet which is taken upon by the gaining 

--- PAGE 264 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 264 influence of the vertical poles. In response the rotor magnet swings around 
toward the straightening upper pole face as it becomes South.  One quarter 
period later the Cosine Current in the horizontal electromagnets is Zero Percent, and the Sine Current in the vertical electromagnets is 100  Percent, 
as given by Cosine and Sine Functions respectively. The vertical electromagnets are new fully energized, now the upper pole is full South 
and the lower pole is full North.  
 The rotor bar magnet has now advanced in position in accord with the 
instantaneous position in the A.C. cycle. It is now held rigidly in place 
between the upper and lower pole faces. Both the rotor magnet and the 
cycle have advanced from the New Position to the Leading Position, one 
unit versor rotation. The upper pole face is now the active point along the 
A.C. cycle and the rotor is "In Phase" with it. This is what is known a s 
synchronism.  
 As the cycle further advances onward, the Cosine Current again 
strengthens after passing through its Zero crossing. Its magnetic polarity is 
now reversed. The Sine Current now weakens , as did the Cosine Currents 
one quarter period earlier.  The Sine, or Imaginary, Currents in the vertical 
electromagnets have a weakening magnetic force and lose their influence 
upon the bar magnet. At the same time the reversed Cosine, or Real, 
Current is beginning to strengthen increasing the magnetic force b etween 
the right and left electromagnets. At this position in the A.C. cycle the right 
pole face is now South and the left pole face has become North, in 
opposition to the start of the cycle. The poles have flipped around and the 
rotor bar magnet swings ac cordingly. The rotor is now captured by right 
pole face.  
 
One half period after the start of the cycle the Cosine Current is negative 
100 percent while the Sine Current is going through its Zero crossing and is Zero Percent. This is given by the Cosine and  Sine Functions. The 
horizontal electromagnets are now fully energized, in reverse, holding the bar magnet rigidly in place. The vertical electromagnets are again dormant.  
 

--- PAGE 265 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 265 The rotor bar magnet has advanced with the cycle, it following the South 
pole of th e stator assembly. The rotor is now aligned with the horizontal 
pole faces in the Full Position of the A.C. cycle. It is now in opposition with the New Position at the start of the cycle in accord with the opposite 
direction of current flow in the horizont al electromagnets.  
 
By continuing the cycle the rotor bar magnet is carried onward through the 
cycle, from Full to Lagging, and then from Lagging to its origin at New. 
The rotor moves in synchronism with the active point on the A.C. cycle as 
it revolves in  the stator assembly. This condition is known as the Rotating 
Magnetic Field, a discovery of Nikola Tesla. Here it is a travelling South 
pole moving from one pole face to the next.  
 
3.4  Rotating Magnetic pole 
 
 
 
COOPERATIVE SINE & COSINE FUNCTIONS  
Figur e 200 

--- PAGE 266 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 266  
(Editor's Note: To see an animation of this image, go to this website.)  
http://www.math.tamu.edu/~alarios/courses/TAMU/2013_fall_M151/mathgifs.html  
 
COOPERA TIVE SINE & COSINE FUNCTIONS  
ENGAGED IN ROTATION  
 
 
 
SYNCHRONOUS MACHINE OPERATION  
Figure 201 
 

--- PAGE 267 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 267 As the Cosine Current wanes and the Sine Current waxes the horizontal 
electromagnets lose influence and the vertical electromagnets gain 
influence. The rotor mag net positions itself in accord with the relative pole 
strength. One eighth period, or an angle of Pi over Four, into the cycle, it is half way between the New Position and the Leading Position. Here at this 
point in the cycle the Cosine Current and the Sine Current are of equal strength and both are 70.7 Percent of their maximum magnitudes. This is 
given by the Cosine and Sine Functions.  
 
The current in the horizontal electromagnets is equal to that in the vertical 
electromagnets, they now exert equal infl uence upon the rotor bar magnet. 
The rotor now orientates itself half way between the left and upper pole 
faces, just as the A.C. cycle is half way between its New and Leading 
positions. Here exists the equivalency of the Space Phase Position of the 
rotor and the Time Phase Position in the stator. This is the act of 
synchronism and represents a transform between space and time.  
 In this position of Space Phase the rotor bar magnet is not orientated to any 
physical pole face, it is pointed into a Void Space between the left pole and 
the upper pole. At this Pi over Four instant in the cycle the rotor magnet is held just as rigidly as if it were held between a pair of physical pole faces, 
this in the horizontal or vertical positions. Since the North pole of the rotor 
bar magnet is always pointed to a South pole on the stator assembly, a 
South pole must now exist in the Void Space between the left and upper 
pole faces. This non -physical South pole exerts as Real of a force upon the 
rotor as does the actual physi cal pole faces.  
 
This is the key feature of the discovery of Nikola Tesla. This is what is 
called a "Virtual Magnetic Pole". This virtual pole moves through space in 
accord with the phase position of the A.C. wave that gives rise to this pole. 
A virtual electromagnet is spinning in the  stator while the physical stator is 
stationary. This gives a "Magnetic Versor", or rotating magnetic pole. Here 
defined is a Rotating Magnetic Field.  

--- PAGE 268 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 268 [4]  The Vision of Nikola Tesla  
 
4.1  Goethean Vision  
 
 
JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE 1749 -1832   
Figure 202 
 How did Nikola Tesla arrive at this idea of a Virtual Magnetic Pole? By his own account, it came to him in a "Single Flash of Light". Tesla was 
watching the sun as it set and this sparked the idea in his mind.  
 

--- PAGE 269 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 269  
As the su n was in the process of setting, Tesla began to recite a particular 
poem about sunset, this written by the German poet and philosopher Goethe. The philosophy of Goethe had and important influence upon the 
mind of Tesla. As he watched the sun go down, the w ords of the poem 
stated, "To follow, to follow soaring". This was the trigger for the mind of 
Tesla who by now was in one of his hallucinogenic trances that he often 
and uncontrollably experienced. His mind had for some time been working 
on the A.C. motor problem, the problem of converting alternating current 
into a rotary force rather than just an alternating force.  In this "Flash of Light" that problem has been solved.   
 
 
Figure 203 
 

--- PAGE 270 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 270  
Tesla envisioned in his mind  of being carried along with the  sun in  its 
apparent motion around the Earth. His mind was in synchronous motion with the sun, it would follow the Noon position of the sun as it raced 
onward around the Earth. It is always noon somewhere on Earth and 
Tesla's mind was there. He would follow soari ng, the Earth racing 
backwards under his feet.  
 
The constant relative motion of the sun around the Earth's surface 
constitutes a rotating pole. Its reference phase here is Noon. This Noon 
Position moves along the Earth's surface, just as the reference pha se moves 
in the stator assembly.  
 
4.2  Rotating Pole  
 
The sun can be thought of as a giant magnetic pole, this pole directed at the 
Earth. This would cause a magnetic object on Earth to move with it. This 
object would follow the sun -magnet pole in its tra velling Noon Position. 
The object is now moving at 1000 miles per hour along the earth's surface 
to keep up with the sun, it is moving at synchronous sped in relation to the 
apparent motion of the sun.  
 
In the mind of Nikola Tesla, the sun was a Virtual M agnetic Pole in view of 
his A.C. motor revelation. He was the rotor magnet to be carried along 
with the sun. A round and around, this at a synchronous speed . This was 
his vision of the A.C. motor.  
 
4.3  Four Phase A.C.  
 
When one observes the setting sun, a t that same moment it is in its Noon 
Position, one quarter rotation to the West. This is one unit versor rotation. 
This relation in the mind of Tesla during his revelation gave an image of 
four phases, or versor positions:  
 

--- PAGE 271 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 271  
 Sunrise    One 
 Noon     Two  
 Sunset    Three  
 Midnight   Four  
 Nikola Tesla envisioned the Four Phase System of alternating current to 
create his rotating magnetic field. This quadrapolar form allows for the use 
of a pair of currents one quarter period "Out of Phase", the Real Current 
and the Imaginary Current. This gives rise to the rotary motion. This is 
known as poly -phase alternating current.  
 
4.4  Epilog 
 
 
 
NIKOLA TESLA 1856 -1943   
Figure 204 
 
At the height of his revelation, his first words were "Watch me make it 
reverse", as he began drawing diagrams in the sand on the ground, to show 

--- PAGE 272 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 272 his stunned friend. By reversing the direction of one of the currents, while 
leaving the other unchanged, the rotor quickly reverses its direction. 
Moreover, since the synchronous motor is in synchronism with the 
synchronous alternator. ANY  change of speed or direction at the alternator 
will be quickly matched by an identical change in speed or direction at the motor.  
This synchronous A.C. system of Nikola Tesla constitutes an electrical 
driveshaft. W hat is mechanically applied at one end is what is 
mechanically taken at the other end. This works in both directions, linking the sending end to the receiving end as if by a solid shaft.  
 
Rotational power can now be carried long distances with no intervening 
mechanical linkage, only a static A.C. transmission line. The function of 
gear boxes is replaced by transformers, rotary or static. This could possibly 
be one of the most powerful four quadrant arch forms ever conceived by the human mind.  
 Finish  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 273 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 273  
 
Appendices  
 
 
  
[1] In The Beginning, Versors  
 
 
[2] Four Quadrant Energy Exchange  
 
 
[3] Quadrapolar Resonance  
 
 

--- PAGE 274 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 274  
Appendix #1  
 
And in The Beginning, Versors  
by E. P. Dollard  
(I) What of this thing called versors, and why is it that we should b e interested in them? 
In the most basic conception a versor operator is a means to “move about” in a given 
dimension or dimensional relation. In an extended conception a versor operator is a means of moving from one dimension into another dimension. In the  most general 
conception versor algebra is the algebra of position.  
In nature there exists the four polar positions of our moon. This gives four unit versor positions,  
 , new, conjunction  
 , leading, quadrature  
 , full, opposition  
 , lagging, quadratur e 
Hence the Lunar Versor operator,  
(1) 
  
 
These unit versor positions occur when at a given geographic location the following exact relations exist;  
Full, moonrise at sunset 
Lead, moonrise at noon  
New, moonrise at sunrise  
Lag, moonrise at midnight  

--- PAGE 275 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 275 This le ads to a versor algebraic expression. Hence a natural set of versor relations in 
quadrapolar form. It should be noted that Nikola Tesla’s original archetypal vision of 
alternate electric waves was his poetic versor rotation of the Sun -Earth relation. 
Needless to say versor algebra finds extensive application in alternating current theory. Read first part “Symmetrical Components” by Wagner and “Power and Double Frequency Quantities” by Steinmetz, (from his A.C. book), for advanced concepts.  
A most important application of versor algebra is the study of complex electric waves in space. There has been no progress beyond the cumbersome and under -developed 
quaternions of J.C. Maxwell, nor the transverse electromagnetic vector algebra of Oliver Heaviside. This is an important task. Such an electrical condition is found in the propagation of electric waves within transformer windings. The networks of Nikola Tesla and Ernst Alexanderson follow from an analysis of complex electric waves in the common transformer. Howe ver this knowledge evades us. It is that the present state of 
versor algebra has not developed out of its infant form, the square root of negative one. 
It’s engineering application was founded by C.P. Steinmetz (1898 A.D.) and he also 
suggested higher orde r versors as given in his A.C. book, “Roots of The Unit”, and etc. 
Steinmetz however never applied these to engineering even though their possible 
application was evident. He later on became rather “stuck up” on his own established 
work, this a side effect  of G.E. using Steinmetz to promote their own image. A more 
generalized conception of versor algebra was attempted by Alexanderson McFarlane but this also never developed into any engineering applications. This is where versor 
algebra sits today.  
(II) The concept of a versor algebra is not new, nor is it limited to electro- dynamics. One 
of the oldest versor systems is the symbolic representations of the Aboriginals (Indians) 
of the American Continent. These systems found advanced development in the cultures  
of Central America. Noteworthy here is the “Mayan Calendar”. In versor symbols this calendar states,  
For 
 unit,  
And it is nearing the time  
unit,  
Where m is an unknown unit division in a grand cosmic cycle of  
years.  

--- PAGE 276 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 276 This in common language, equation one  states “Happy  Grand  New Year”. A versor 
axis, here given as  
, raised to a zero power, is like midnight, or the new moon, it is 
the start of a “new day”. 
In mechanics there exists the condition called “top dead center”. In electrics there exists 
the condi tion called “unity power factor”. In both cases it is a vertical reference, zero 
degrees, pointing upward. This is expressed by “high noon” on the face of the clock. This hereby establishes the position of a reference versor,  
(2) 
 unit  
(III) Another verso r system of antiquity is that developed by Pythagoras of Ancient 
Greece (570 – 495 B.C.) This system is called “Music”. It is based upon the HARMONIC SUBDIVSIONS of an oscillating string, two to one, two to three, four to five, and etc. Each subdivision re presents a versor position. This developed into a base seven versor,  
(3) 
 
 
It is however than n is a fractional and sometimes complex quantity. Therefore music 
represents a most complex versor system. This versor algebra, or music, found slow 
development  until the era leading to Martin Luther, 1400 A.D. – 1500 A.D. The foremost 
development of this era is what are known as the “ Church Modes ” 
 

--- PAGE 277 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 277 It is of interest to note that one Church Mode in particular has a hysteresis loop. The 
rising scale takes a different path of notes than that path of notes for a descending scale. Here exists a musical analog of a hysteresis cycle. M. Luthe r (1500 A.D.) published his 
archetypal musical series using the Church Modes. Of these, his “Ein Fest Burg”, is well known in church music today, it is the “standard”.  
After 1600 A.D. music found considerable advancement in Italy, mostly thru the efforts of the Italian Priest, Antonio Vivaldi. (1678 – 1741 A.D.) From here forward the use of 
the church modes was confined to only two out of the complete group. Today these are known as the MAJOR scale, and as the MINOR scale. Transformation between frames of reference known as “keys” (the frequency bands) was not possible until the system of 
“Equal Temperament” by J.S. Bach (1700 A.D.). Bach’s versor system was based upon the expression  
percent.  
This gave one unified versor system of divisions called the chrom atic scale. This twelfth 
root relation is the basis for the diatonic scale of today. It is however that Equal 
Temperament is at odds with the original percentages, or ratios, of the Pythagorean 
System. This remains as an unsolved condition in the versor al gebra called music.  
During the era following the church modes, the versor expressions of time became increasingly developed. This led to the “Age of Clocks”. Time versor operators became important parts of the music structure. The CANON is the most basic v ersor relation 
and it led to the more developed FUGE. Time versor algebra reached its greatest heights in the works of J.S. Bach, 1685 – 1750. In many ways Bach’s work is analogous to that of Steinmetz, and moreover J.S. Bach can verily be regarded the Tes la of the music world. 
Here is where to begin the understanding of versor algebra. A simple music keyboard, and a set of church modes is all that is required. Listening to the music of J.S. Bach replaces the reading of the equations of C.P. Steinmetz. In m any ways the two are the 
same. As a musical reference is “Switched on Bach” performed by Carlos, in particular Bach’s “Brandenburg Concerto Number Three”.  
(IV) As for the “Age of Clocks”, the versor positions of the clock face provide a most fundamental an d intrinsically basic system for the study of the use of versor operators. 
The versor operators of music on the other hand provide a most complex but intrinsically heuristic system for the study of the theory of versor operators. For the engineer the clock  represents a most important primordial advancement in the 
conception of versor algebra. It should be noted that the clock, the music keyboard, and the calendar, all serve as analog computers for the expression of versor position in time and/or space. The Grand Pipe Organs of Europe, some with more than 10,000 pipes, 

--- PAGE 278 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 278 stand as the greatest analog computing systems ever to be created. Here engineering 
rose to heights incapable of being reached today.  
The clock as an analog computer is a link to the cycles of the Earth, Moon, and Sun, in a manner of resembling that of the American Aboriginals. In the era of the clock, these analog versor systems developed into advanced analogs of the entire solar system, superclocks. These superclocks came to be known as “Plane tariums”. In its 
fundamental expression the common clock involves the most basic cyclic functions. In its simplicity the divisions are equidistant and the hands remain unit length during progress thru the cycle. And importantly, it is divisible into four q uadrants. Hence our 
rudimentary examination of versor operators begins with the ordinary clock face.  
The basic versor operator for the clock, in h ours, is given by the expression  
unit 
And thereby,  
(4) 
 unit 
Is the versor operator. This is to say there are  12 hours, or unit divisions, of one 
complete rotation on the face of the clock. All other degrees of rotation are fractional. Hence the unit division of one hour is represented by the symbol, k. This is the fundamental versor operator of the clock. The expression,  
(5) 
unit 
Is called “Noon”, fig (1). Hence for this versor operator, k, it is  
, 
 
, 
 
, 
 
(V) Let the versor operator  

--- PAGE 279 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 279 (6) 
 unit 
Be called Standard Time, fig (2).  
Let the versor operator  
(7) 
 unit 
Be called Daylight Time, Fig (3)  
Hereby there e xists two distinct time frames, let us say Pacific Standard Time, P.S.T. 
and Pacific Daylight Time, P.D.T. These two time frames now co -exist in the same 
space. In symbolic form let Standard Time be real, or h time, and let Daylight Time be 
imaginary, or j  time. This is now in accord with A.C. theory, but with a twelfth root 
rather than a square root. The two versor operators, h and j, are called co -axial versors. 
This is to say, the h hand, and the j hand are on the same axis, fig (4). Here Daylight Time i s a unit DISPLACEMENT on the face of the clock. Depending upon the time 
frame chosen there now exists the complication of two noons, fig 4a & 4b, but only one noon can be real. Noon by definition is that position in time
 when the Sun is at 
its highest posi tion in the  sky. This position is evidenced by the condition of a shadow 
being in its  shortest length  upon the  Earth . This is the reference versor, or top dead 
center. In the imaginary time frame (P.D.T.) noon in that frame is one unit versor leading, or c onversely real noon is one unit versor lagging. This can be expressed as,  
(8) 
unit 
Or simply  
(9) 
 unit 
Where,  
(10) 
a, real noon  
b, imaginary noon  
This is entirely analogous to A.C. theory. Hereby versor theory is now extended beyond its application by Ste inmetz, and the versor operator j remains a transform between the 
real and imaginary co -ordinate systems. The time in the imaginary (P.D.T.) system must 
be multiplied by the versor operator j in order to transform to the real positions of noon and midnight . This in a way vindicates Steinmetz’s assertion that the most general 
algebraic number can always be expressed by  

--- PAGE 280 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 280 (11) 
 unit,  
But this can only be true for the dimension of time.  
In common language, those existing in the imaginary time frame of “Daylight Savings 
Time” are one over jOUT OF STEP with nature. This represents a 30 degree unit displacement on the face of the 12 hour clock. On a 24 hour cycle imaginary time is 15 degrees OUT OF STEP with the rotation of the Earth. In other words for those in imaginary time, this time is a place on Earth 15 degrees distant from the location of its 
natural occurrence. Your time is now in a place you are not. In A.C. Terms  
(12) 
, percent  
The Power Factor  
(13) 
 , percent  
The Induction Factor  
Hence  
(14) 
 unit percent  
Where  
  
(VI) A common man conception of the versor concept is not complete without a related N.F.G. Historically, the works of J.S. Bach suffered the same fate as the works of Nikola Tesla. Shortly after the death of J.S. Bach (1750) all his important wor k was thrown into 
the garbage, this regarded as obsolete junk. If it was not for Herr Forkel, who recovered Bach’s work from the garbage and wrote the first book about Bach, all memory of Bach, 
and his work, would have been lost forever. Today, it is seen by some, that as with N. 
Tesla, the works of J.S. Bach is inimitable and profound. But it is of no value to modern 
society. The music of today has degenerated into the gutter sounds of “Hump N’ Slap,” and “Eubonic Barking Savages”, then the Boom….Boom Boom …….. Accordingly it is 
seen that the so called Science has followed a parallel path. This is known as “Quantum Mechanics”, the science of delusions. This “Science” in reality is no more than one big “Khazarian Circle Jerk”. And finally? Art! What an  absolu te joke
. To criticize it is like 
slaying the slain. Today one can obtain a grant from the “Sheisenburg Foundation” to express one’s “artistic talent” by smearing human fecal matter onto a large canvas. Upon calling it “God” it will be worth millions. This is society today, COMPLETELY 
DEGENERATE.  
So verily we are lost souls, hence the importance of reconstructing what has been lost to us. And it is to be noted that even Bach and Tesla themselves are only steps on a path, 

--- PAGE 281 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 281 or as said by Heaviside “ There is no finality .” But who is going to support this effort, or 
who is even interested at all? Rest assured that no support will be provided by our 
Babylonian society. This endeavor is more like becoming a Christian in Ancient Rome, a dangerous undertaking. See the  movie “Fahrenheit 451” for an excellent portrayal of 
what awaits.  
73 DE N6KPH  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 282 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 282 
 

--- PAGE 283 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 283 
 

--- PAGE 284 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 284 


--- PAGE 285 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 285 
 

--- PAGE 286 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 286 Appendix #2  
 
Four Quadrant Energy Exchange  
in Magnetic & Dielectric Fields of Induction  
Part One  
 
The Magnetic Field of Induction, Phi, is directly related to th e magneto -motive force, or 
“current”, i, in amperes. A constant, time invariant, M.M.F. constitutes a constant, or 
“direct current”, magnetic field. This constant M.M.F., or direct current, gives rise to no reactionary Electro- Motive Force, E. E.M.F. is a result of the magnetic field acting to 
maintain a constant current in a regulatory manner. Here the current, and hence the M.M.F. are already constant, thus zero E.M.F. In this condition no energy is exchanged, thus the magnetic energy is “static”, or all Potential Energy, in Weber -Ampere.  
 
Since Electric Activity, or Power, in watts, is the product of this constant current, i, and 
an E.M.F., E, which is zero, the Activity, or Power is also zero. Thus in the absence of an E.M.F. no Power is required in orde r to maintain a static Magnetic Field of Induction, 
Fig 1A.  
 Likewise, a Dielectric Field of Induction, Psi, is directly related to an electro -static 
potential, e, in volts. A constant, time invariant potential constitutes a constant, or “D.C.”, Dielectric  Field. This constant potential gives rise to no reactionary 
Displacement Current, I, in amperes. Displacement is the result of the Dielectric Field acting to maintain a constant potential, but here the potential is already constant, thus the Displacement is zero. In this condition no energy is exchanged, thus the Dielectric 
Energy is “static”, or Potential Energy in Coulomb -Volts.  
 
Since Electrical Activity, or Power, P, in watts, is the product of this Constant Potential, e, and a Displacement Current, I,  which is zero, the Activity, or Power is also zero. Thus 
in the absence of Displacement no power is required to maintain a static Dielectric Field of Induction, Fig 1B.  
 A violent magnetic discharge, in the form of an intense forward E.M.F., results from the path for current, i, being broken, or open circuited. This forward E.M.F. is the result of the stored energy within the Magnetic Field acting to maintain a continuous current, and its M.M.F., which now has been disrupted by an open circuit. An open cir cuit is the 

--- PAGE 287 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 287 denial of any current flow, thus an infinite E.M.F. is developed within the Metallic -
Dielectric Geometry of the Inductance. Fig 1C.  
 
Likewise, a violent dielectric discharge, in the form of an intense Forward Displacement Current, results from the Potential, e, being Short Circuited. This Forward Displacement 
is the result of stored energy within the Dielectric Field acting to maintain a Continuous 
Potential which now has been disrupted by a short circuit. A short circuit is the denial 
of any Potential, thus an infinite Displacement is developed within the metallic -
dielectric geometry of the Capacitance. Fig 1D.  
 The Flow of Power, or Activity, is indefinite in all four of the above conditions. No products can be formed since it is either the cur rent is zero, or the potential is zero. The 
energy involved is only that contained in the Fields of Induction themselves, no energy exchanged, or transfer, exists with outside forces. The static charge, or Transient Discharge must remain within the metalli c-dielectric geometry of the Inductance, or the 
Capacitance.  
 
For the static case, the energy remains in a signal form, magnetic or dielectric. For the 
disrupted case, the energy escapes into its conjugate form within the Counter -Spatial 
Dimensions of the Inductor, or the Condenser, containing the energy involved. For the 
Disrupted Magnetic Discharge the extreme E.M.F., E, becomes an extreme electro -static 
potential, e, thus the energy escapes into Dielectric Form within the Inductor.  
 
Likewise, for the dis rupted Dielectric Discharge, the extreme displacement, I, becomes 
an extreme M.M.F., i, thus the energy escapes into Magnetic Form within the 
Condenser. Because no energy is dissipated, powerful electric oscillations are produced 
within the Inductor or Con denser. The trapped energy is continuously reflected to and 
fro between Magnetic & Dielectric Forms within the metallic -dielectric geometry of the 
device. Little Theoretical or Experimental knowledge exists on this subject, but here 
enters the work of Nikola Tesla, and his disruptive discharge apparatus.  
 
When the energy contained within the Fields of Induction is delivered to, or taken from, external forms, a set of relations exist as shown in Fig 2. This condition of energy transfer involves Electrical Activity, or Power, P, in watts. Power is The Time Rate of Energy Transfer into, or out of The Field of Induction. The Dimension of Time now takes part. Thus energy transfer gives rise to Frequencies and Time Constants.   For this condition of External Energy Transfer, the external device is a specifically constructed drycell, this the size and shape of the common “D” cell as used in a flashlight. This drycell has virtually no internal losses. It also has been proportioned to 

--- PAGE 288 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 288 have a Natural Impedance of one o hm, and thus a Natural Admittance of one siemens. 
Hence the following characteristics of this “XD” drycell;  
 
Open Circuit Potential, eo, 1 Volt  
 Short Circuit Current, io, 1 Ampere  
 And thus the ratio of one volt to one ampere is  
 Natural Impedance, Zo, 1 Ohm  
 The Polarity markings for eo and io are shown on the drycell in Fig 2.  
 This unit drycell is hereby a source of Constant Potential to a Charged Condenser of Equal Potential, and a source of Constant Current to a Charged Inductor of the Same Current. T he Displacement or E.M.F. is zero. In both conditions the energy is static, no 
Transfer of Energy takes place giving rise to Activity. The Power is zero thus the 
conditions revert to those of Fig 1A & 1B.  
 This unit drycell contains a certain quantity of S tored Chemical Energy. This Chemical 
Energy can be taken out and delivered to an external form, or it can be given back to 
Chemical Form within the drycell, taking energy from an external form. Energy can be taken from or given to this unit drycell, it is rechargeable.  
This unit drycell thus can be a Negative Resistance, or a Negative Conductance, when 
supplying Energy to External Forms. It also can be a Positive Resistance, or a Positive 
Conductance, when taking energy from external forms. For the conditi on of constant 
current this unit drycell is a Positive Resistance, R, in ohm when taking in energy from an External Form, or it is a Negative Resistance, a “Receptance”, H, in ohm when giving 
out Energy to an External Form.  
 
Likewise, for the Condition of Constant Potential this unit drycell is a positive Conductance, G, in siemens when taking in energy from External Forms, or a negative Conductance, and Acceptance, S, in siemens when giving out energy to External Forms.  
 This unit drycell is here shown to be a bi -directional resistance or conductance. In 
ordinary Resistances R or Leakages G energy flow is always a uni -directional flow, out, 
in the form of Heat Energy commonly. Here then is a Versor Resistance, or a Versor Conductance. The D.C. Versor operat or is derived from the expression,  
(1) 

--- PAGE 289 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 289 
 
Symbolically it is  
(2) 
 
 
With roots, +1 and - 1 
 The versor operator becomes, for this D.C. condition of bi -directional flow,  
(3) 
 
And  
 
 
 
 
...etc  
Hereby the versor relations of the bi -directional device, such as the unit drycell are 
given  
(4)  
 
 
 
And it is 
  
 The energy stored within the Magnetic Field of Induction can be supplied to, or taken 
from the unit drycell. Likewise the energy stored within the Dielectric Field of 
Induction can be supplied to or take n from the unit drycell. Whereas the disruptive 
circuit condition completely open circuits the Inductance, or completely short circuits the Capacitance, here now the unit drycell is inserted in the place of the open circuit, or the short circuit. Circuit C ontinuity is hereby maintained by the drycell. Energy can 
now be transferred in a finite manner.  
 The Magnetic Inductance can take the Chemical Energy out of the drycell, storing it within its magnetic field. Conversely, The Magnetic Inductance can deliver  its Stored 
Energy to the Chemical Energy of the drycell. This is a two way Reciprocal Relation.  
 Likewise, The Dielectric Capacitance can take the Chemical Energy out of the drycell, 
storing it within its Dielectric Field. Conversely, The Dielectric Capac itance can deliver 
its Stored Energy to the Chemical Energy of the drycell. Again this is a two way 

--- PAGE 290 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 290 Reciprocal Relation. The Inductance and Capacitance can give or take energy just as can 
the drycell.  
 Hereby Four Distinct Conditions exist, a pair for each  Field of Induction, one pair the 
Energy Transfer between the Drycell and Inductor, (1) charge, (2) discharge, the second pair the Energy Transfer between the Drycell and Condenser, (3) charge, (4) discharge. 
Hence,  
 
(1) The Energy, W, in Joules, stored in  the Magnetic Field, Phi, in Weber, is delivered by 
Electrical Activity, P, in Watts, Fig 2A, to the drycell   (2) The Energy, W, in Joules, stored in the Dielectric Field, Psi, in Coulomb, is delivered by Electrical Activity, P, in Watts, Fig 2B, to the d rycell.  
 (3) The Energy, W, in Joules, stored in the Magnetic Field, Phi, in Weber is derived from the Electrical Activity, P, in Watts, Fig 2C, out of the Chemical Energy of the drycell.  
 
(4) The Energy, W, in Joules, stored by the Dielectric Field, Psi, in Coulomb, is derived 
from the Electrical Activity, P, in Watts, Fig 2D, out of the drycell.  
 
Hence Magnetic Power Flow in watts can transfer energy from the Magnetic Field, or to 
the Magnetic Field, this energy to, or from, the Chemical Energy of the drycell. The flow of power is two way, or bi -directional. It is a differential quantity.  
 
Likewise hence, Dielectric Power Flow in watts can transfer energy from the Dielectric 
Field, or to the Magnetic Field, this Energy to, or from, the drycell. Again the P ower 
Flow is bi -directional, a differential quantity.  
 
The Magnetic Inductance develops an Electro -Motive Force, E, during the Time of 
Energy Transfer with the drycell. This E.M.F. acts in conjunction with, or in opposition to, the Continuity of Current (M.M.F.), i, this developing the Electrical Activity, Ei, in watts, of Energy Transfer. This Activity, or Power, Pm, is the time rate of Energy Transfer.  
 Likewise, the Dielectric Capacitance develops a Displacement Current, I, during the Time Interval of En ergy Transfer with the drycell. This Displacement acts in conjunction 
with, or in opposition to, the Continuity of Potential, e, this developing the Electrical Activity, Ie, in watts, of Energy Transfer. This Activity, or Power, Pd, is the Time Rate of Energy Transfer.  
 

--- PAGE 291 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 291 It hereby can be seen that the dimension of Time plays an important role in this Energy 
Transfer. Electrical Activity is the time rate of Energy Transfer,  
 Watt, or Joule per Second. (5)  
 The longer, more prolonged, time rate of transfer, th e less in magnitude is the Power 
Flow. Likewise, the shorter, more instantaneous, time rate of transfer, the greater in magnitude is the Power Flow. The Disruptive Discharge is a Limiting Condition, and as well is the Static Charge. In both cases the Flow of Power is zero. The Energy remains within the Inductor or the Condenser.  
 Thru adjustment of the time rate of charge, and the time rate of discharge, involved in Energy Transfer into, or out of, a Field of Induction, any magnitude of Electrical Activity,  P, can be developed from a given quantity of stored Energy, W, Fig 3, Fig 4. 
Denoting the charge time as t1, and the discharge time as t2, taking the ratio as,  
, Numeric (6)  
The Power Magnification is given as  
, Watts, (7)  
And thru Energy Conservation, it is,  
, Joules (8)  
The factor n is called The Magnification Factor of Energy Exchange.  
 While a Magnetic Inductance is gathering energy from the Chemical Energy of the drycell, a backward directed E.M.F., E, is developed within this Inductance. This E.M .F. 
acts to maintain a constant M.M.F., or current, i, that is it acts to maintain the quantity of Energy Stored within the Magnetic Field. While an Inductance is delivering its Magnetic Energy to the Chemical Energy of The Drycell, a forward directed E.M. F., E, is 
developed within the Inductance. This E.M.F. also serves to maintain a constant M.M.F. or current, i, that is it acts to maintain The Quantity of Energy Stored within the 
Magnetic Field. Fig 2A & 2C.  
 
Hence the charging Inductance, gaining Magnet ic Energy, develops an E.M.F., E, in 
opposition to the Potential, e, of the Drycell. The resulting Voltage Difference combines with the current, i, in delivering Energy to the Magnetic Field of Induction. This E.M.F. is called the “Back E.M.F.”. Also, the Discharging Inductance, losing Magnetic Energy, develops and E.M.F., E, in conjunction with the Potential, e, of the Drycell. The Resulting Voltage Summation combines with the current, i, in delivering Energy to the drycell. This E.M.F. is called the “Forw ard E.M.F.”. The E.M.F. is thus a differential 
magnitude, Back E.M.F. on charge, +E, Forward E.M.F. on discharge, - E. Fig 3.  

--- PAGE 292 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 292  
Likewise, hence the Charging Capacitance ad Displacement Current, I, in opposition to the current, i, of the drycell. The resultin g current flow combines with Potential, e, in 
Delivering Energy to the Dielectric Field, taking it from the Chemical Energy of the drycell. The Discharging Capacitance develops a Displacement Current, I, this in conjunction with the current, i, of the dryc ell, in Delivering Energy to the drycell, taking 
it from the Stored Energy of the Dielectric Field, Fig 2B & 2D. The Charging Displacement is called the “Back Displacement,” and The Discharging Displacement is called the “Forward Displacement”. Back Displa cement, - I, Forward Displacement, +I, 
the displacement is a differential magnitude. Fig 3.  
 Hereby, The Four Primary Energy Transfer Relations  
 1) Magnetic Energy Discharge,  
Forward E.M.F., Fig 2A.  
 2) Dielectric Energy Discharge  
Forward Displacement, Fig 2B.  
 
3) Magnetic Energy Charge,  
Back E.M.F., Fig 2C. 
 4) Dielectric Energy Charge  
Back Displacement, Fig 2D.  
 
Note, the unfortunate condition exists that the Production of Energy is taken as a 
Negative Value, the Consumption of Energy is taken as a Positiv e Value. However, this 
is the established convention, despite the confusion it creates.  
 
The following relations for power flow are hereby derived,  
 
MAGNETIC POWER FLOW;  
 1) Charge, 
(9)  
 2) Discharge, 
(9)  
 DIELECTRIC POWER FLOW;  
 3) Charge, 
(10)  

--- PAGE 293 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 293  
4) Discharge, 
 (10)  
 The versor expressions for charge and discharge are given as.  
 (11)  
,  
 
 
, 
 
 Where 
is the charge/discharge versor operator. Substituting these expressions into 
the general relations of Power Flow, the magnetic,  
 (12) 
,  
 
 
,  
 
And, the dielectric,  
 (13)  
,  
 
 
,  
 
Hence the most general expression for Versor Power is,  
 (14) 
, Versor Watts  
 
, Versor Watts  
Where, N = 0,1.     

--- PAGE 294 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 294 


--- PAGE 295 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 295 


--- PAGE 296 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 296 


--- PAGE 297 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 297  
 

--- PAGE 298 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 298 The Four Quadrant Theory of Electrical Activity  
Part Two  
 
In part one the energy transfer was o ne only of two forms, the transfer of Magnetic 
Energy, or the transfer of Dielectric Energy. Only one form of Inductive Energy exists. It 
is a single energy, and accordingly it is called a Single Energy Transient. Only one form 
of stored energy is active i n a Single Energy Transient.  
 
This stored energy can exist in one of two distinct forms,  
 The Magnetic Energy,  
 
(1) 
, Ampere -Weber  
 
The Dielectric Energy,  
 
(2) 
 , Volt -Coulomb 
 
Because these stored energies are static quantities, they are time invariant. The dimension of time has no role in their existence. It is however that time is a necessary dimensional requirement for the existence of energy. So where then is the energy?  
 These dimensional expressions for stored energy represent only the Potential for  Energy 
Existence. It is that the expressions given for the energy stored by a field of induction are no more than expressions for the magnitude, and quantity, of the magnetic induction, and dielectric induction, themselves. No union of the two inductions exist to form the product, Electrification, Q, and its time rate, Energy, W.  
 The single energy transient is a Magnetic Energy Transient, a transient of Electro-Motive Force, E, or it is a Dielectric Energy Transient, a transient of Displacement Current, I . These two reactive transients give rise to products, these with their 
respective potentials, the electro -static potential, e, and the magneto- motive force, i. 
M.M.F. is also considered a potential in that it is static. These products of reaction and pote ntial represent The Electrical Activity of their respective Single Energy Transients. 
Thus a pair of Products, one for each field,  
 The Magnetic Activity  
 

--- PAGE 299 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 299 (3) 
 , Watt  
 
The Dielectric Activity  
 
(4) 
 , Watt.  
 
Each Versor Activity, 
 or 
 , represents one form of energy only, magnetic or 
dielectric, not both.  
 
Also shown in part one was the magnification factor is a negative numeric. This magnification factor, n, is the ratio of two time spans, the time span for charge, to the time span for discharge. For the nu meric ratio to be negative, one time span must also 
be negative. Hence the magnification factor is the ratio of a negative time span, the charge time, to a positive time span, the discharge time. The magnification factor is given as  
 
(5) 
, Numeric  
 
By the  Law of Energy Conservation for the stored inductive energy, the amount of 
energy given to the field must equal the amount of energy that the field can give back. 
This is to say the energy sent into a field of induction is the same energy sent out of the field of induction. Hence the two energies are in opposition with regard to the flow of 
power, the power in, and the power out, this resulting in a negative transfer constant, the magnification factor, n.   This results in the expressions for power flow con taining a negative dimension, now 
exists one power flow forward in time, and another power flow, reverse in time. Power can now flow in both directions with regard to the dimension of time. Hence Power is free to move about in the dimension of Time, that i s, it is a Versor Power Flow.  
 
Here exists an analog of power flow in space along the length of a transmission line, 
where power is free to move along the length of the line in either direction. Thus the analog of a “Length of Time”. Here then the existenc e of forward and reflected waves in 
time, just as was seen for waves on a transmission line. Hereby a composite transient, the superposition of a wave moving forward in time and a wave moving backward in time, can be developed for any instant in time. One wave travels from the past to the future, the other wave travels from the future to the past, a pair of traveling waves in time, traveling in opposite directions. The superposition of the opposing waves is the Present, or Now, t equals zero. 

--- PAGE 300 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 300  
The versor of  Electrical Activity hence resides in the metrical dimension of Time, giving 
the relation as  
 
(6) 
 , Seconds.  
 
Time is now a bi -valent dimension, two values of time,  
 + t , real time, seconds,  
 - t , imaginary time, seconds.  
 
It is then given by the Law of  Energy Conservation,  
 
(7) 
, Watt -Second  
 
Imaginary Time can be called “Counter – Time”, this in analog to “Counter – Space”. There is however an important difference between the two. The expression for Counter -
Space is given by  
 (8) 
, Per Centimeter  
 Where h = - 1 
 However, the expression for Counter -Time is given by  
 (9) 
, Negative Second  
 Space is given here in terms of algebraic products, whereas Time is given here in terms of algebraic sums. This suggests a relation between Time and Space, or Time – Space where it is  
 (10) 
, Versor  
 (10a) 
, Unit Versor  
 A similar condition can be found for the versor condition  
 
(11) 
, Versor  

--- PAGE 301 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 301  
Reducing this to a base two versor, 
 , gives the pair of projections,  
 
(12) 
 , Numeric  
 
This resulting in a pair of ratios  
 (13) 
, Numeric  
 
(14) 
 , Numeric.  
 
Little theoretical knowledge exists on this subject. It is of interest to note here the relations,  
 (15) 
, Numeric  
And  
(16) 
 , Numeric  
Thus  
(17) 
 , Numeric  
 In part one the unique condition of a disruptive discharge was given. In the disruptive discharge of a magnetic field of induction, or a dielectric field of induction, the discharged energy is confined within the metallic -dielectric geometry. No external 
energy transfer exists. In this condition the given field, the m agnetic, or the dielectric, 
exchanges its energy with its Conjugate Form, the dielectric, or the magnetic. This is to say that Every Condenser has a bit of Inductance, it is the very nature of an aether filled metallic -dielectric geometry.  
 Because this “p arasitic” capacitance or inductance has a very small value as a coefficient 
of energy storage, the Disruptive Discharge Develops Transients of great intensity and of Very Short Duration in Time. For the discharging inductor the intensity is given by  
 (18) 
, Volts  
 Where  
 
(19) 
, Henry Per Farad  
 

--- PAGE 302 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 302 And C is the Parasitic Capacitance  
 
And for the Discharging Condenser,  
 (20) 
, Ampere  
 
Where  
 
(21) 
 , Farad per Henry  
 
And L is the Parasitic Inductance.  
 
Because one form of energy storage is the denial of the other form of energy storage, in 
the disruptive discharge, no steady state condition is possible. The energy has nowhere to roost, it is continuously thrown back and forth, remaining within the metallic -
dielectric geometry. Here the stored energy is continuously exchanged between spatial 
and counter -spatial forms of energy storage, this continuously moving back and forth 
thru time and counter time. Because the Inductance in the steady state is a short circuit, it cannot maintain a potential, e, and because th e Capacitance in the steady state is an 
open circuit, it cannot maintain a current, i. Thus a potential, e, can only exist as a time 
variant E.M.F., E, and likewise a current, i, can only exist as a time variant displacement, 
I. 
 
No energy is transferred i nto, or out of, the metallic -dielectric geometry, it is only 
exchanged between denials of form. It is then given  
 
(22) Ei = - Ie , Volt -Ampere  
 
-Ei = Ie , Volt -Ampere  
 
Substituting the following  
 (23) E = e , Volt  
 I = i , Ampere  
 Gives the expression for t he electrical activity of the disruptive discharge as  
 (24) 
, Volt -Ampere  

--- PAGE 303 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 303  
Instead of allowing the disrupted Field of Induction to discharge back into its conjugate form within the metallic -dielectric geometry, an external conjugate form can be utilized. 
That is to say, an External Condenser, or an External Inductor. Equations (19) and (21) now apply to the external energy storage element rather that the internal parasitic values. These represent the natural impedance of the pair of energy storages. The 
metallic -dielectric geometry now is reduced to a magnetic inductance connected with 
an external condenser, or it is reduced to a dielectric capacitance connected with an 
external inductor. This is given in a sequence of diagrams, Fig 1.  (1) Fig 1A. A discharging Magnetic Inductance transfers its energy into a Charging Dielectric Capacitance.  
 (2) Fig 1B, A discharging Dielectric Capacitance transfers its energy into a Charging Magnetic Inductance.  
 (3) Fig 1C, A charging Magnetic Inductance transfers its en ergy out of the Discharging 
Dielectric Capacitance.  
 
(4) Fig 1D, A charging Dielectric Capacitance transfers its energy out of the Discharging 
Magnetic Inductance.  
 
Here given are the four quadrants of energy exchange between a pair of mutually conjugate f orms of energy storage, the inductor and the condenser. The stored energy is 
being continuously transformed from one form into its conjugate form in an endless 
cyclic rate. The time rate of this energy exchange is the electric activity, 
, in volt -
amperes.  This activity represents the flow of power between the Inductor and the 
Condenser. Rather than a single energy transfer, it is now a pair of energy transfers. 
This is now a double energy transfer, or a Double Energy Transient.  
 In the double energy transi ent the stored energy is trapped with no escape. Thus this 
energy remains stored energy in an alternating current form, stored A.C. energy. The activity, or the flow of power is a continuous cyclic energy exchange, an opposing pair of energy transfers each  moving in opposite directions in time. One energy transfer 
travels forward in time, the conjugate energy travels backward in time. The superposition of this opposing pair of traveling waves in time gives rise to a stationary wave in time. This is an analo g to the standing wave on the length of a transmission 
line.  
 Because the inductor is charging while the condenser is discharging, or the condenser is 

--- PAGE 304 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 304 charging while the inductor is discharging, the relations for power flow are given by 
 (25) 
, watt -secon d 
 And rearranging gives the relation  
 
(26) 
, watt -second  
 
The expression of the Law of Energy Conservation.  
 For the condition of oscillatory energy exchange the time relations are given by  (27) 
, seconds  
 
The two time spans, the charge time span, 
 , and the discharge time span, 
 , are now 
equal and opposite. Hence a single time span can represent both 
 and 
 . 
 
(28) 
 , seconds.  
 
This time span is the one quarter period of a complete cycle of Energy Exchange, T. In the condition of cyclic energy exchange  the magnification factor is expressed by the 
relation  
 
(29) 
, versor.  
 
Hence the magnification factor is always unity. The Magnetic Power, Pm, is equal to the Dielectric Power, Pd. This is to say the Charge Power Flow is equal to the Discharge Power Flow . No charge -discharge magnification exists here. This magnification factor is 
now just a versor operator establishing the Law of Energy Conservation.  
 For the condition of energy transfer, the single energy transient, the transfer of energy is into, or out of the single stored energy. It is a one way flow, backward flow, or forward flow. It is uni -directional like a direct current. However, for the condition of the double 
energy transient the energy is reflected back upon itself between an opposing pair of energy storages. The double energy transient is a bi -directional power flow like an 
alternating current.  
 The single energy transient can be considered a traveling wave in time, the double energy transient can be considered a standing wave in time. This is  in analogy to 

--- PAGE 305 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 305 traveling and standing waves on a transmission line. Here time is an analog of length in 
the movement of electric energy.  
 The activity of the oscillatory energy exchange is given by the product of the Electro-Motive Force, E, and the Displa cement Current, I. The four quadrantal activities are 
thus given by,  
 Fig, 1A, - EI 
 Fig, 1B, - IE 
 Fig, 1C, +EI  
 Fig, 1D, +IE  
 Each of the above activities exist in their respective quadrant in the cycle of energy exchange. It is given algebraically that,  
 
(30) - EI = - IE 
 
+EI = +IE  
 
No energy is gained or lost, thus the activity is identical for each quadrant in the time cycle of energy exchange. Hereby a single effective activity exists for the double energy 
transient in its exchange of energy between Magne tic Form and Dielectric Form. This is 
given as in equation (24)  
 
(24a) Po = EI volt -ampere  
 
This is the electric activity of the oscillatory energy exchange between the Inductor and 
the Condenser. This is not an actual power in watts, but an electric activ ity in volt-
amperes.  
 For the condition of energy transfer, the single energy transient, a pair of electrical activities exist,  
 eI , iE , watts.  
 Each represents the flow of power in the Dielectric, or Magnetic Energy Transfer. Here the charge time span a nd the discharge time span are independent time frames. An 

--- PAGE 306 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 306 indefinite static time interval can exist between these two time frames. However, the 
double energy transient of oscillatory energy exchange has no possible static time interval, no possible steady  state. Also the charge time span is identical to the discharge 
time span. One is the mirror image of the other, both of equal length in time. The two opposing energy transfers cancel out, just as do two opposing traveling waves. This leads to a stationary wave and one resultant electric activity only, that of the Cyclic 
Energy Exchange. No energy is gained or lost, it is confined to the oscillating system. 
This represents a stored alternating current and as such must posses an angular velocity of energy exchange since A.C. is a circular function. Hence it is,  
 
(31) 
, radian per second  
 
Where T is the time span of one cycle of energy exchange.  
 This exchange is then in the form of a perpetual motion which gradually weakens due to energy leakage, that is, th e losses in the metallic -dielectric geometries where the 
energy exchange takes place.  
 Power magnification in the oscillating energy transfer takes on a different form in the oscillating energy exchange. No magnification is possible between the charge and discharge portions of the cycle of energy exchange, they are equal and opposite time 
spans. It is however that a finite quantity of stored energy exists, and its activity is the 
time rate of energy exchange between magnetic and dielectric forms. A definite  time 
cycle exists, where the transfer time, to, is one fourth the time span of a complete cycle 
of energy exchange, T. The transfer time defines the rate at which the stored energy is 
transferred back and forth, that is, the rate at which it is exchanged.  Thus the relations 
for power and energy are given by  
 
(32) 
watt -second  
 
(33) 
 watt, or volt- ampere.  
 
Where to is one fourth period T. The Time Period, T, and thus the angular velocity of 
energy exchange can be derived from the Laws of Induction, these fo r an alternating 
current form. Thus given  
 The Law of Magnetic Induction,  
 

--- PAGE 307 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 307 (34) 
 , weber per second  
 
The Law of Dielectric Induction,  
 
(35) 
 , coulomb per second  
 
Rearranging (34) and (35) gives  
 
(36) 
 , and 
 , radians per second  
 
And substituting the rela tions  
 
(37) 
 , and 
 , Induction  
 
Into the relations of (36) gives  
 
(38) 
 , and 
 , radians per second  
 
It is however,  
 
(39) 
 , and 
 siemens, ohm  
 
Thus the relations (38) become,  
 
(40) 
 , and 
 , radians per second  
 
Substituting the defining ratios,  
 
(41) 
 , and 
 , siemens – ohm  
 
Into relations (40) gives the expressions for the angular velocity of energy exchange  
 

--- PAGE 308 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 308 (42) 
 , and 
 , radian per second  
 
Hence (42a) 
 , by definition.  
 
The expressions (42) for the angular velocity of energy exchange represent a pair  of 
velocities, one forward in time, one reverse in time. The time period of one cycle of energy exchange is therefore given by the expression,  
 
(43) 
, seconds  
 
And thus the time span of energy transfer is given by   
(44) 
, seconds  
 
Substituting these re lations into the expression for power, equation (33), where it is,  
 
(43a) 
 , per second  
 
(45) 
 , volt – amperes  
 Where, F, is the frequency of oscillation, in cycles (
 radian) per second. Hence the 
magnification of activity for a given quantity of energy in the oscillating energy exchange is not a function of the ratio of charge to discharge times, since they are now equal. The magnification is here given as a function of the rate of energy exchange, the Frequency of Oscillation, F, in cycles per second. T he more rapid the energy exchange, 
the higher the frequency and thus the larger the magnitude of the resulting electric activity. Power is directly proportional to frequency.  
 In the above condition of energy exchange the charge time span is equal in length to the discharge time span. No charge/discharge magnification is possible. It is however that the energy storage coefficients, the Inductance L, and the Capacitance, C, can be altered between charge and discharge intervals, Fig 3. This alteration can be done in two ways. One method is to use separate inductive elements in the charge/discharge cycle. For example, an inductance can take energy from one capacitance on charge and deliver this energy to another capacitance on discharge, or alternately a capaci tance can take 
energy from one inductance on charge and deliver this energy to another inductance on 

--- PAGE 309 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 309 discharge. Energy exchange has now reverted to a pair of energy transfers, and an 
indefinite static interval. The frequency of oscillation is according dif ferent for the 
different charge or discharge intervals. Hence the magnification factor is given by the relation  
 
(46) 
, numeric  
 
Where 
 is the angular time rate of charge and 
 is the angular time rate of discharge. 
This magnification was utilized by Nikol a Tesla for the purpose of Power Amplification 
with no electronic elements.  
 The other method of altering the charge/discharge cycles is thru synchronous Parameter Variation. Rather than switching the energy storage elements, the co -efficients of energy 
storage, L, and, C, can be made variable throughout the cycle of Alternating Energy 
Exchange. Hereby the capacitance can vary between charge and discharge intervals, or the inductance can vary between charge and discharge intervals, and both can be varied throughout the cycle of alternating energy exchange. The magnification factor is now a 
complex quantity, or versor expression. Little theoretical knowledge exists on this 
subject.  
 
The relations for electric activity for differing charge and discharge freque ncies are 
hereby the same expressions as those for single energy transfer,  
 (47) 
, volt -ampere  
 (48) 
, volt -ampere  
 
(49) 
 , volt -ampere -second  
 
Equation (49) states the Law of Energy Conservation, this for the condition of switching 
energy storage elemen ts. Since the magnification factor is a complex quantity for the 
condition of Synchronous Parameter Variation, the Law of Energy Conservation is indeterminate.  
 In all that has been covered thus far the Metrical Dimension of Time has been the primary consi deration. Energy and Power are Products of Time. This is expressed in the 
relation  
 

--- PAGE 310 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 310 (50) 
 , joule per watt  
 
The relationship between Energy and Power is Time. The energy has been a stored energy, and the power has been the time rate of the stored energy movement.  
 What has not been considered thus far is the condition of an actual Direct Current, a Time Invariant Condition, nor the condition of negligible co- efficients of energy storage, 
very insignificant values of inductance or capacitance. These are cond itions of Zero 
Energy Storage. The dimension of time has no role in these conditions. This is the “Time Scalar” condition. Here is the fourth and final condition in the Flow of Electric Power.  
 In the scalar condition the transfer of energy exists with no form of energy storage, 
there is no charge or discharge interval. The transfer is constant. As it was in the 
beginning, so it shall be for now and ever more, the continuous, or Direct Current. Even with the application of an alternating current, the energy  transfer is still direct, it 
following exactly the cycle of the applied alternating current. Hence the scalar condition is FREQUENCY INDEPENDENT, as would be expected for a time invariant condition. Thus the transfer can be instantaneous. Time does not exist in the scalar condition. The notions of constant, cyclic, or instantaneous, play no part in this condition. They can only arise from external causes.  
 The scalar condition is then the result of one of two distinct conditions,  
 
1) No time variation of the fields of induction, as with direct current,  
 
2) Negligible energy storage so as not to react with time variant currents, as with transient current.  
 In both conditions the Electro- Motive Force, E, and the Displacement Current, I, are 
zero. Hence no ene rgy exchange or transfer exists with any field of induction.  
 Because the dimension of time in the scalar condition is indeterminate the dimensional relation of energy is also indeterminate, since energy is a product of time. It is however that power flow actually takes place as a product of the potential, eo, and the current, io, that is,  
 (51) 
, watt  
 It is however  

--- PAGE 311 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 311  
(52) 
 , per second  
 
This is to say that the time span is indefinite. Hence energy can only be expressed as 
power in the time scalar conditio n. 
 
Also, in the absence of an electric field of induction both phi and psi are non -existant, 
thus the product, Q, is non -existant,  
 
(53) 
 , planck.  
 
Therefore the energy is non existent  
 
(54) 
 , joule  
 
So where then is the energy? In the scalar condition all energy is created and dissipated in the same instant, no intermediary energy exists. It is “on demand”. Obviously, as with the similar situation of the disruptive discharge condition, there is always a bit of something somewhere that leads to a determi nate solution, such as the connecting 
wires. The actual scalar condition can only exist within inter -molecular dimensions.  
 The scalar condition can be derived by the interconnection of resistances and conductances. Resistance, R, in Ohms, and Conductance,  G, in Siemens. No energy 
storage is possible in these elements and thus they are Time Invariant quantities. There 
is no energy, what ever energy is given here instantly vanishes, appearing as a source of 
heat. This scalar condition thus contains no electr icity, it simply eliminates it. The rate at 
which energy is eliminated is given as a flow of power, P, in watts, this as a product of a dissipative E.M.F. and a dissipative displacement.  
 -e, , E.M.F. 
 -i , Displacement  
 Because of the scalar condition it is the E.M.F. is also the Potential, and the displacement also the current. No electric field exists. Thus the power is given by  
 (55) 
, watt.  
 

--- PAGE 312 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 312 In a manner similar to the condition for oscillating energy exchange, no cross product 
exists between a reactio n and a potential, as it is with the relation  
 (24) 
, volt -ampere  
 Thus the relations exist for the scalar condition as analogs to the exchange condition. 
This gives,  
 
(56) 
, ohm per siemens  
 (57) 
, siemens per ohm  
 
And  
 
(58) 
 , scalar numeric.  
 Where   Rc , the natural resistance  
 Gc , the natural conductance  
 
, the propagation constant.  
 
The scalar condition can also exist for the interconnection of receptances and 
acceptances, receptance, H, in Ohm, and Acceptance, S, in Siemens. Here the energy is instantly produced, drawn out of the inter -molecular dimensions of the receptances and 
acceptances. With the resistance -conductance configuration the energy is instantly 
destroyed, pulled into the intermolecular dimensions of the resistances and conductance s. Both are instant, no lag time is involved.  
 These conditions can be established with a pair of unit drycells. This condition involves time invariant energy transfer. It is instantaneous. When a charged unit drycell is connected with a discharged unit dr ycell a constant unidirectional transfer of energy 
takes place. This transfer is in space, not in time. This transfer takes place from the 
charged drycell to the discharge drycell, a one way trip.  
 
As with the prior conditions of energy movement four relations exist with regard to the 

--- PAGE 313 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 313 flow of power. These are shown in the diagrams of Fig 4. Hence the four relations,  
 
Fig, 4A, - ei , watts  
 Fig, 4B, - ie , watts  
 
Fig, 4C, +ei , watts  
 
Fig, 4D, +ie , watts  
 And algebraically it is given  
 (58) - ei = - ie , watts  
 +ei = +ie , watts  
 The transfer of energy and thus the flow of power is bi -directional, any drycell can 
charge any other drycell, that is,  
 
-ei & +ei.  
 
And hereby the flow of power is given as  
 
(59) 
, watts  
 
In the scalar condition there is no electrical  activity because of the time invariant nature 
of this condition. Likewise, in the exchange condition there is no electrical power because of the time variant nature of this condition. One is NOT the other. Thus the relations are,  (60) 
, volt -amperes,  
 
, watts.  
 Both are real quantities and thus algebraically additive. The volt -amperes represents the 
complete storage of energy with no leakage whereas the watts represents the complete absence of energy storage with the complete leakage of energy. Here “le akage” is 
defined as leakage into, or out of, the metallic -dielectric geometry.  
 Here in final form are thus the four distinct conditions for the flow of power in an 

--- PAGE 314 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 314 electrical configuration:  
 
0) The Scalar, or Anti -Electric, Product;  
 (61) 
, watt  
 
1) The  Forward Cross, or Magnetic, Product;  
 
(62) 
 , joule per second  
 2) The Axial, or Magneto- Dielectric, Product  
 (63) 
, volt -ampere  
 3) The Reverse Cross, or Dielectric, Product  
 (64) 
, joule per second  
 
Hereby the Heaviside Expression for the Movement of Energy as a flow of power can 
be assembled, giving the general form as,  
 
(65) 
  
 
, versor watt  
 
The apparent power flow is given as the square root of the sum of the squares,  
 
(66) 
 , watt  
 
Where 
 , watt  
The versor operators are tentative, however they ca n be derived from “Symbolic 
Representation of The Generalized Electric Wave”, E.P. Dollard. One such versor form 
is given as  
 
(67) 
 , versor  
 
(67a) 
 , versor  
 
The Three Fundamental Factors can now be derived for the electrical configuration, 

--- PAGE 315 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 315 utilizing equa tions (65) and (67), hence given are,  
 
(68a) 
 , Power Factor, percent  
 (68b) 
, Induction Factor, percent  
 
(68c) 
 , Magnification Factor, numeric  
 
Where it is,  
 
, numeric  
 For the condition of equation (66) it is a circular function and  
 
(69) 
, unity  
 
And the general versor expression is given as,  
 
(70) 
 , versor  
 
Taking equation (66) as  
 
(66a) 
 , watt  
 
As the condition of a hyperbolic function fives the relation  
 (71) 
, unity  
 
And the general versor expression is given as  
 
(72) 
 , versor  
 
It can be seen that each quadrant is in itself another four quadrant relation. One relation 
is compounded with another. The versors are inordinately complex, back to the J. S. Bach. These relations given are found in “The POWER of Music, Alexander’s Feast”, by G.F. Handel, The Final Choral Movement. Consider this required listening.  

--- PAGE 316 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 316 


--- PAGE 317 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 317 


--- PAGE 318 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 318 


--- PAGE 319 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 319  
 

--- PAGE 320 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 320  
 
Appendix #3 
 
Quadrapolar Resonant Circuit  
 
                                       

--- PAGE 321 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 321 
 

--- PAGE 322 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 322 


--- PAGE 323 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 323 
 

--- PAGE 324 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 324  
 
FOUR QUADRANT REPRESENTATION  
OF ELECTRICITY  
(3 hour video lecture)  
http://fourquadranttheory.com  

--- PAGE 325 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 325 
 
 
 
WIRELESS GIANT  
OF THE PACIFIC  
http://wirelessgiantofthepacific.com  

--- PAGE 326 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 326 
 
 
LONE PINE WRITINGS  
http://lonepinewritings.com  

--- PAGE 327 ---

emediapress.com                                     EricPDollard.com  
 327 A & P ELECTRONIC MEDIA  
Use the link below to purchase any non-Eric 
Dollard books or videos from A & P Electronic 
Media and 60% will go to Eric Dollard and EPD 
Laboratories, Inc.  
If you purchase any of Eric's books or videos 
from th at website, 70% will go  to Eric Dollard 
and EPD Laboratories, Inc.  
http://emediapress.com/downloads.php?offer=epdollard   
 
 
 
JOIN THE GROWING 
NUMBER OF SUPPORTERS  
FOR THE LEGENDA RY WORK OF  
ERIC P. DOLLARD AT  
ERIC'S OFFICIAL HOMEPAGE  
 
IT'S FREE TO JOIN!  
http://EricPDollard.com  
 
 